If we were to believe Professor Layton vs. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney takes place in both:
a. December 5th-10th, 2018
b. In the same universe
then we can assume the following:

(Around 1.2 million years before) - 1,197,982 BC
The Azran Civilization goes extinct.
Aurora (the only surviving member of her civilization) is trapped in a prison of ice.

(Around 85 years before) - 1933
Rufus Aldebaran finds the Relics Treasure and hides it in the Cranscoll Cathedral in Southampton.
Aldebaran, Earl Drake Dellendar, and his son, Dylan, are put into suspended animation.

(48 years before) - 1970
Inspector Clamp Grosky is born.

(Around 47 years before) - 1971
Sophia leaves Folsense while pregnant of Katia's mother.
Dropstone is founded by Sophia.

(Around 44 to 39 years before) - 1974 to 1979
Hershel (Jean Descole) is born to Leon Bronev and his wife, Rachel.

(34 years before) - 1984
Theodore (Layton) is born to Leon Bronev and his wife, Rachel.
Randall Ascot, Henry Ledore, Alphonse Dalston, and Angela Ledore are born.

(Around 30 years before) - 1988
Bronev and his wife are kidnapped by Targent.
Theodore is adopted by Roland and Lucille Layton. His name is changed to Hershel Layton.

(Around 29 years before) - 1989
Keelan Makepeace is born.

(24 years before) - 1994
Emmy Altava is born.
Barton is born.

(23 years before) - 1995
Janice Quatlane is born.

(20 years before) - 1998
The Laytons move to Stansbury.
Hershel Layton attends Kingsbrook Academy. He becomes friends with Randall Ascot, Angela Ledore, and several others.
Clive is born.

(17 years before) - 2001
Randall and Hershel sneak out and go to the ruins of Akbadain. They trigger a trap and Randall falls in a seemingly endless pit.
Eve Belduke is born.

(16 years before) - 2002
Espella Cantabella is born.

(10 years before) - 2008
Luke Triton is born.

(Around 10 years before) - 2008
Hershel Layton goes to Gressenheller University and is taught by Dr. Andrew Schrader. He meets Claire and starts a relationship with her.
Justin Lawson is born.
Marina Triton is born.

(7 years before) - 2011
Hershel Layton finished his education. Eventually, he becomes a professor himself. Janice Quatlane will be one of his students.
A time machine experiment goes wrong, with the deaths of Clive's parents and several other people as a result, and it blasts Claire to 10 years in the future. She returns to the moment of the explosion and dies.
Inspector Gilbert is shot and killed.
Bill Hawks gets a huge amount of money for testing the time machine.
Hershel Layton is beaten up for trying to investigate the accident and has to be hospitalized.
Nina is born.

(6 years before) - 2012
Professor Layton helps after Emmy Altava when she is falsely acused of being a thief.

(Around 3 years before) - 2013
Alfendi Layton is born.
Hilda Pertinax is born.

(Around 6 months before) - Sometime in 2015
Some ancient remains are discovered in Misthallery and an article about that is posted in the London Times.
Jean Descole kidnaps Doland Noble and Brenda Triton. He starts terrorizig Misthallery with his "Specter".
Melina Whistler dies.

(Current time) - Fall 2015?
Professor Layton and the Last Specter occurs.

(Some months later) - Winter 2015?
Professor Layton and the Eternal Diva occurs.

(Sometime before a year later) - Late 2015?
Randall Ascot meets Jean Descole and they make plans for Randall to take revenge on Henry Ledore. Randall becomes the Masked Gentleman and starts terrorizing Monte d'Or.

(A year later) - 2016
Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask occurs.

(2 years later) - 2017
Desmond Sycamore finds Aurora in her icy prison in Froenborg.
Inspector Chelmey marries Amelie Grosky.
Professor Layton and the Azran Legacy occurs.

(3 years later) - Late May 2018?
Professor Layton and the Curious Village occurs.

(Days after Curious Village) - Early June 2018?
Professor Layton and the Diabolical Box occurs.

(At most 6 months after Diabolical Box) - December 5th-10th, 2018
Professor Layton vs. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney occurs.

(Unknown) - 2018
Claire arrives in London from 10 years in the past.
Clive finishes work on Future London.

(months after Diabolical Box) - Around Christmas 2018
Professor Layton and the Unwound Future occurs.

(Around 5 years later) - 2020
Lucy Baker is born.

(5 years later) - 2020
Luke saves the just born baby of the dying mother Kamilla Azan from a sinking ship.
Luke returns to London with the baby, where Professor Layton states that he will take care of the baby as if she was his own and named her Katrielle Layton.

(Around 6 years later) - 2021
Diane Makepeace is born.

(7 years later) - 2022
Ernest Greeves is born under the name Miles Richmond.

(Unknown time) - Any time between 2022 and 2030
Hershel Layton adopts Alfendi.
Luke marries with Marina.
Barton becomes Comissioner of Scotland Yard.
Aldebaran leaves his coffin in the relics room.

(15 years later) - 2030
Katrielle says goodbye to Professor Layton and Luke before they went on a journey to solve the mystery of the Hidden Relics.
Professor Layton and Luke are captured by the priest of the Cranscoll Cathedral in Southampton and are put in suspended animation inside coffins of the Relics Room.

(16 years later) - 2031
Lord Maximillian Richmond finds a large stash of diamonds and relinquishes them to the Seven Dragons of Longdon.
Lord Richmond dies because of illness.

(19 years later) - 2034
Miles, under a mistaken belief, swears revenge on the Seven Dragons following the death of his mother and takes the name Ernest Greeves.

(22 years later) - 2037
Alfendi Layton gets shot by Keelan Makepeace at Forbodium Castle. Following these events, he develops a Dissociative Identity Disorder.

(25 years later) - 2040
Ernest goes on to study at Gressenheller and meets Katrielle when mistakenly accused for stealing a scientific paper.

(Unknown time) - 2040 or 2041
Layton Brothers: Mystery Room occurs.

(26 years later) - 2041
Layton's Mystery Journey: Katrielle and the Millionaires' Conspiracy occurs.
Layton Mystery Detective Agency: Kat's Mystery-Solving Files occurs.


-Okay, that was enough Layton ranting. SRB2 changelog dump here for future use:
Demo 3 - June 23rd, 2001
* - New frontend. This will focus on being the main menu now.
* - Tails' sprite is now completed. No more 'changing to Sonic'!
* - Ending of Techno Hill Zone 1 has been redone. The temporary stupid fan bit at the end has been removed and replaced with something far superior.
* - Multiplayer! Two new multiplayer modes added. See below.
* - 'Race Mode' - Remember Sonic 2? Relive those times and run through the levels trying to grab as many rings, item boxes and points as possible!
* - 'Tag Mode' - For those of you who tried out the 'SMATCH' mini-beta tests we held at the SRB2 parties, this will be familiar to you. Basically, tag each other using rings!
* - New multiplayer maps for the above modes.
* - A few bug fixes and level improvements (you will no longer get stuck in the lake outside the 'Crawla Pen', for example).
* - Rings are now spilled properly, rather than randomly.
* - A few other things we're hiding, as usual.
    Redid the spindash code. Handles the same, but you can spindash where otherwise you couldn't before (moving platforms, etc.)
    Did some work on the movement in preparation for THZ2. (No, it is NOT included in the demo).
    You can now move around slightly while spinning on the ground.
    Grab an extra life every 50k points. Even plays the music and rewards it during the level end tally.
    Finished Tails sprite. No more questioning who it is you're throwing rings at in multiplayer when they look like Sonic X-Treme. Yay.
    Purple slime now hurts. Ouch. But maybe if you find the right shield...
    Hopefully less crashes in Greenflower 2. Also fixed the part where you can get stuck with the current.
    Various little tweaks and fixes to make the game run faster and more fun.
    AKA's Diving Multiplayer Mode! Take a long walk off a short pier and pull off some moves to gain points and beat the competition!
    Sonic 2 Race. Race against your friends to the exit goal, where you'll find out who got the most rings, boxes, and enemies, plus the best time, to determine who the winner is. Even if you're the last one to the line, but you have the most rings, boxes, and enemies hit, you'll win. Only 60 seconds are given to reach the goal after the first person has gotten there, though... (all of it may not be finished in time).
    
    Demo 4 - December 25th, 2001
* - Capture the Flag mode! Get onto one of two teams and attempt to capture the other player's flag. This mode will obviously come with special maps for Capture the Flag play.
* - Special Stages - Get all the rings within a time limit to recieve a Chaos Emerald. The 'Chaos Emeralds' in Demo 3 and below will be replaced with special stage tokens instead.
* - New robots! Meet Jet-Synn and Deton, among others! (TBC)
* - There may be one or two extra 'Demo 4 special' single-player levels, however, don't be suprised if they don't turn up.
* - Big fixes in the launcher program. A few minor glitches have been corrected.
* - A few multiplayer fixes (the score tally not working correctly in Race mode, for example).
* - Surprises, yada yada blah blah.

Demo 4.1 - January 6th, 2002
    The Armaggedon Shield no longer crashes a netgame when it is blown up.
    Rings no longer follow you after you've lost your Ring Shield.
    You can now load save games at Castle Eggman.
    "Safety net" to prevent snow in netgames.
    Can no longer jump off death pits.
    Prevented emerald radar from going insane.
    Several little net and single player fixes and speed-ups.

Demo 4.32 - March 8th, 2002
    No more crashing in hi-res mode!
    Better netplay - including the ability to search for games!
    Lots of additionsfor level designers, including better handling of missing textures.
    OpenGL mode (See the readme on how to activate it)!


Demo 4.33 - March ?, 2002
Knuckles no longer climbs on air if he is under a platform.
Rings now spawn in multiplayer.
Lives can now be lost.
Switching from Tag to Match no longer makes IT hurt others by merely touching them.

Demo 4.34 - March ?, 2002
Water is now consistent in netplay.
Autojoining in netplay now works.

Demo 4.35 - March 20th, 2002
Corpses are now visible when dying in slime.
Players no longer appear translucent in netplay.
Drowning issues fixed.
Joining in-game now works.
Life icon support added for skins.

Final Demo 1.01 - June 19th, 2003
Initial release.

Final Demo 1.02 - June 19th, 2003
Unknown, but it's likely a Multiplayer-specific update.

Final Demo 1.03 - June 19th, 2003
No changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.04 - June 19th, 2003
Fixes a sneaky little multiplayer bug when people join the game.

Final Demo 1.08 - January 1st, 2004
Multiplayer stabilization
Provided mappers with more things to work with.

Final Demo 1.09 - September 11th, 2005
Unknown.

Final Demo 1.09.1 Beta 1 - December 24th, 2005
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.1 Beta 2 - January 5th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.1 Beta 3 - January 5th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.1 Beta 4 - January 6th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.2 - January 7th, 2006
"Highres" option for skins and things now works properly.
Ceiling objects show up properly when spawned with objectplace.
"Climb in air" Knuckles bug fixed
SOLIDSPECTATOR to make spectators opaque/translucent
'Spidey Knux' back for SA mode only
Several NiGHTS multiplayer bug fixes
2D Diagonal spring bug fixed
Fixed NiGHTS link display
RUNSOC command to run SOC files in-game
Lots of NiGHTS fixes
Pointlimit now works in tag
All score logos now rise
Fixed actnum display error in host game menu
CTF spectator fix with crushing platforms
MF_NOTHINK is now SOC-able for static items (replaces MF_INFLOAT)
Height bitsets now work on search emeralds
Team Match/Time Race mode change fix
Gargoyles/Snowmen now respawn when pushed into pits
MF_FIREs are now extinguished when submerged
Fixed bouncy sector problems
Tagging ML_BOUNCE to control sector line elminates minimum bounce requirement
32 free light slots for SOCs
If special stage ring requirement is 0, then don't have a ring requirement
Don't turn super in super sector if dead.
Custom bosses now work properly
Prevent jerks from overflowing the text command buffer in a netgame
Fix for non-spinning characters getting crushed.
More RAM for snapshots
Fix for getting launched off of halting platforms.
Changed line special 122 to only center the object in the sector if NOCLIMB flag is set.
Appropriate bug fixes from SRB2JTE
Bobbing platform tweaks
Numbers can now be put into level title (i.e., "SRB2 TOWN ZONE")
Multiplayer emerald hunting fixed
In Adventure Mode, Boss Camera doesn't "lock on" to the boss unless the boss has a target
SKYNUM console command that changes the sky by number.
Chasecam automatically set to ON in 2D mode, even in match.
Pressing ESC clears and cancels the chat.
Character menu fix
NiGHTS multi-mares work, in netplay too.
Knuckles-only bustable blocks (use NOCLIMB flag)
SKIPMAPCHECK variable for developers
New linedef executors for checking emeralds and NiGHTS mares
Relative teleport command, "RTELEPORT"
Texture replacement without a texture list using ADDFILE now works
"NORELOAD" for map headers
New "Rising Platforms" - Line specials 89-94
Linedef executor for any object (970)
"RUNSPEED" value for skins
Linedef executors that check rings (95 & 99) 

Final Demo 1.09.3 - April 9th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.1 - April 9th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.2 - April 9th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.4 - April 10th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.5 - May 4th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.6 - May 5th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.7 - May 12th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.8 - May 24th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.8.1 - May 24th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.9 - May 28th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.10 - May 29th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.11 - June 1st, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.12 - June 3rd, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.13 - June 8th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.14 - June 9th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.15 - June 11th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.16 - June 13th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.18 - June 25th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.19 - June 25th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.20 - June 27th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.22 - June 30th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.23 - June 30th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.24 - July 6th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.25 - July 6th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.26 - July 8th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.27 - July 9th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.28 - July 11th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.29 - July 15th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.30 - July 17th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.31 - July 18th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.32 - July 20th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.33 - July 22nd, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.34 - July 25th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.35 - July 26th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.36 - August 1st, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.37 - August 2nd, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.38 - August 7th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.38.1 - August 7th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.39 - August 8th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.40 - August 10th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.41 - August 10th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.42 - August 15th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.43 - August 15th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.3.44 - August 17th, 2006
No official changelog was ever made for this version.

Final Demo 1.09.4 - August 19th, 2006
Better translation maps for font colors.
Sector type 995, return flag to base.
Translucency for precipitation in OGL - for what shows up of it, anyway.
NiGHTS savegames now a jillion times smaller!
Fixed problem with pointers in player struct not being sent to clients in netgame snapshot.
Bug with passing strings to -gametype fixed.
'GAME OVER'/'TIME OVER' indicator for time only race results.
Fix for joiners having a race time of 00:00:00
Respawnitemtime forced to a minimum of 1
Sector type 992 doubles pull-up height
Fix for 2D Knuckles climbing
No water physics for dead players.
Added MT_HOOPCOLLIDE to the blockmap
New NiGHTS Bumper object
New HUD for CTF
NiGHTS system totally rewritten!
Little "please wait" messages for connecting to servers via the menu.
Progress box for file downloading.
Server host menu/Level Select now displays level pictures
Adjustment to shield position to fix rendering artifacts in OpenGL.
Texture clamping for midtextures in OpenGL
Texture offsets for FOFs in OpenGL now match that of software.
RESETMUSIC console variable - defaults to "NO"
Bomb ring debris now changes color
Emblems properly displayed at end of game
Time Attack Menu System
Starposts are now 'untouched' with NORELOAD
Height adjusted for NOJUMPSPIN players
Three new linedef executor triggers activated by character ability.
No more drowning in Mario mode
con_backcolor to change console color
RESETCAMERA console command
CREDITSCUTSCENE to allow credits to be overridden with a custom cutscene
"waterskip" boolean for skins
"actionspd" for skins - speed of thok/glide/fly
"mindash" and "maxdash" for skins - minimum and maximum spindash speed
Charging spindash in shallow water kicks up splashes
New weather type - 5, storm without rain
"thokitem" and "spinitem" for skins
Zoom Tubes
Changed explosion ring sound
Teleports fixed!
Smarter camera with moving platforms
SOC-style comments supported in skin files in addition to '//' comments
Egg Slimer can now be placed at any height
cv_playerspeed removed, it's dumb
RUNSOC variable for level headers (since you can't use it in SCRIPTNAME)
Option for skins - Don’t 'spin' when super, specifiable super color (0 for don't

change).
MF2_NOHEIGHTCLIP for thok mobjs, shields, etc.
Red Team shoots red rings, Blue Team shoots blue rings
Painchance on spring causes you to spin when you hit it
Circuit mode "kind of" returns
NUMLAPS console variable returns
Shuffle's slope optimization
New Rankings HUD for Race
New character abilities - Gliding with no climb; Super Sonic Float; Double Jump;

Option to run on water; Option to have jumping animation play springup and falling;

Option to have super form; Option to use super frames or normal frames when super
Shell now uses bounce code
3-2-1-GO! for Race
New Knuckles Sprites
Action Parameter System for SOCs
Better support for multi-mares in NiGHTS
Runs faster!
TELEPORT/RTELEPORT no longer checks for valid locations
Super Sonic "spins" now
Rewritten bobbing/floating/crumbling platform code.
New "Rising Platforms"
Less interference from spectators
Network fixes
Can't save games in ultimate anymore
THZ2 slime lowers faster
Pickup radius for air bubbles increased
Pickup radius for ring weapons increased
Sound changed for picking up ring weapons
Proper death message for camera-modifying death pits
MODBY soc variable fixed
Objectplace now always modifies the game
Spectators and objectplacers no longer pull in NiGHTS rings and wings
Possible fix for large intermission display
Game only pausable if in level or intermission
Walking over a teammate's fire trail no longer gives you rings
Extra points for hitting someone with the flag
Extra points for being the person who captured the flag
CECHO messages for capturing flags and returning them to base.
Sounds for capturing flags
Camera zooms out while climbing
CONNECT console command now checks for modifiedgame
Precipmobjs now reused in weather change
Some lasers removed on Easy
THZ1 barrels enlarged & new texture made
New "4" weather type... "blank" precipitation for preloading
Fixed camera reset button problem
Skim movement fixes
Race-only linedef executor (type 9)
Got rid of chatmacros, a dumb doom hangover
Super Sonic doesn't spin while floating
Modified THZ2, CEZ1, and CEZ2 for race
Quieter spindash sound
Bubbles are affected by current
Small bug fixes for pushables
Small bug with continue screen fixed
New linetype 127 - Start Platform Movement
Linedef execs for Red Team and Blue Team
NiGHTS map no longer relies on axis snapping for rings
Normal level music resumes after race death
"Press F12 to watch other players." Message after game over in race
"Respawnitemtime 0" now works with monitors
Removed support for supplying a value after "-server"
TITLESCROLLSPEED option for Maincfg Category
Pumas/Fish now jump if angle is 0.
Lightdash button now drops flag in CTF
New Level Select System
modifiedgame set to true inside CL_LoadServerFiles
"Sudden Death" fix
"Message of the Day" for netgames
Better quicksand texture
Fixed FF_SPINBUST blocks
Better OpenGL lighting calculations
Crush Fixes
Knuckles now clings to bobbing/crumbling/falling platforms
You are now told how many easter eggs you have left in a level
THZ2 slime door opens faster
Two variables for state actions
New state actions
Detons emit a chasing sound
New FOF flag - FF_SHATTERBOTTOM
Enemies/bosses can be crushed
All MF_FIRE objects hurt automatically 

Final Demo 1.09.4a - February 17th, 2008
*) Fix for people joining netgames with the same name
*) Fix for buffer overflow exploit making servers crash
*) Fix for CTF server impersonation

Match Beta - February 21st, 2008
No official changelog exists for this version.

2.0.0 - July 24th, 2009
Initial release.

2.0.1 - July 25th, 2009
Fixed a critical bug with the game crashing after finishing a level that can be saved in. (This prevents progress to GFZ2 without cheating).

2.0.2 - July 29th, 2009
FIXED ISSUES:
- Fixed an issue where players were getting consistency failures and server timeouts when joining a server.
- Fixed an issue where joining a server without an autoexec would give you a name of another player.
- Fixed the force shield crashing due to reflecting the same projectile multiple times
- Fixed random monitors not properly updating their flags and spawning the same type over and over
- Disabled MixUp Monitors in Hide and Seek.
- Disabled saving a game if you're in the finale, during netplay
- Removed scaling of fan particles to band-aid some of ERZ2's crashes
- Minor fixups to consistency protection code.
- Cannonball explosion code has been revised, hopefully alleviating some of the lag found in CEZ2
- Various menu fixes
- Possible fix to the "zombie" bug, where players were stuck in a solid death animation

FEATURES:
- Processs affinity for SRB2 has been force-set to single-CPU.
- STRETCH consvar now defaults to ON
- You can now scramble teams at intermission
- Optimized autobalance code to prevent crashing
- TEAMDAMAGE and FRIENDLYFIRE have been merged into one command, FRIENDLYFIRE.
- Reverted memory allocation system to the static system from 1.09.4 for added stability.
- Random monitor toggles now triggers CV_CHEAT 

2.0.3 - August 2nd, 2009
BUGFIXES:
- Fixed an issue where physical chaos emeralds could be played in match/tag/ctf gametypes, instead of emerald spawns
- Fixed an exploit where single-player emeralds carried over to netplay
- Fixed various errors where a player could continue to move after HIDETIME hit 0 in tag
- Fixed spectators triggering shattering/crumbling blocks
- Fixed an error where SRB1 level select could not be unlocked
- Reverted to the old dynamic memory allocation system, in an attempt to alleviate a few errors that sprung thanks to the change
- Fixed numbering issue involving spectators at intermission
- Fixed an exploit where MT_EGGGUARD could be spawned in multiplayer modes
- Fixed an issue where servers were experiencing illegal colour changes from players on join
- Fixed a logic error pertaining to race scoring
- Fixed an error where some unstable resolutions were being displayed as stable
- Fixed lots of crashes related to MAP84, Twisted Terminal Zone
- Fixed lots of misc. SIGSEGV's that were reported
- Re-fixed the "zombie bug", where a player would be stuck in a death state while remaining solid
- Disable saving at the end of the credits sequence
- Removed upper bounds of cv_hidetime and cv_countdowntime
- Removed special stage tokens from time attack
- Removed a hardcoded delay for consistency protection packets

FEATURES:
- The enabling of cv_cheats has been made more obvious to players
- Team scrambling has been made now more obvious to players
- Moved the "ping" column in the server listing over to fix an issue with text overlapping
- Race rounds now end early if everyone who hasn't finished the race has left the game
- Shortened name displays when F12ing someone, to prevent overlap
- Added a "Scramble Teams" button to the main menu for servers to use
- Dead players are now transparent in TAB rankings 

2.0.4 - August 6th, 2009
BUGFIXES:
- Fixed a gamebreaking crash involving CTF/Team Match and dying via an enviromental hazard
- Fixed a large handful of security vulnerabilities that let people exploit servers and verify themselves
- Fixed major issues with consistency protection not reading the correct amount of bytes
- Fixed "Zombie Bug" message spamming
- Fixed being able to still read a team's team chat while spectating
- Fixed missing patches for SRB2's console text drawing as blue squares
- Fixed a logic error involving spectators and clearing scores
- Fixed the game yelling at you if your IWAD was named srb2.wad
- Fixed not being able to F12 teammates in team match
- Fixed lots of other misc. issues to make the game more stable
- Removed the "Eggman" message with cv_scrambleonchange 

2.0.5 - May 19th, 2010
General
- Improved control mechanics while scaled and under reverse gravity.
- Pressing the Rankings key now hides any irrelevant HUD items from view.
- Version number is now displayed on the main menu.
- Added a menu prompt for enabling cheats.
- Hall of mirrors protection now defaults to on.
- The TUNES console command can now accept a value of “default” to play the song defined in the level header.
- Tumbleweed are now affected by wind and other pushers.

Single Player
- Added a “No Save” option, similar to Sonic 3K.
- Various enemies and scenery items purged from CEZ2 to help improve framerate.
- The platforms in the cannonball room in CEZ2 are now accessible via stairs.
- Adjusted zoom tube start locations for ERZ1 to make triggering easier.
- Added a supplementary safe zone at the far end of the space countdown area of ERZ1.
- Crumbling ERZ3 platforms removed; climbable hanging pillars added behind each of the main pillars.
- Numerous small tweaks to fix little things.

Multiplayer
- Implemented customizable room-based system for hosting and joining netgames, each with their own MOTD.
- Master Server rules have been completely redone and simplified.
- On connection to the MS, SRB2 now notifies you if your game is out of date or if you have been banned.
- In-game notifications have been added if a server has enabled cheats.
- “-room” parameter added for dedicated server usage.
- Servers now provide more information about games to the master server.
- Kick/ban messages are now customizable.
– Vastly improved consistency handling, fixing consistency failures in CTF.
- Flag return timers now display on top of the flag icons instead of as text.
- Clients can now add music WADs during netgames without being kicked.
- You can now view the name of teammates online by facing them, similar to Demo 4.35. This can be controlled either client-side or server-side.
- Added spectator camera controls similar to that of OBJECTPLACE, allowing the player to float in midair however they'd like while spectating.
- Disabled the use of color in user-created chat messages.
- The names of spectators can now be viewed on the rankings screen.
- Added a smaller font for numerals to allow the ammo counter to go above 100.
- Ping autokick experiment implemented, but is disabled by default.
- The random map selection can no longer select the map that you just played.
- Various ERZ2 traps have been set to trigger only in single player to make the map work properly online.
- Added a new match stage, Frost Columns Zone.
- Most of the match stages have been dramatically changed to provide Tails and Knuckles more chances to use their abilities in match.

Bugfixes
– Fixed the height of the first CEZ1 Star Post.
- Misplaced DSZ1 exit sector removed.
- Fixed an error involving the ERZ2 shrink tube.
- SRB1 Remake Star Posts no longer unfairly kill players.
- Chaos Emeralds now spawn in Cloud Palace Zone.
- Chaos Emeralds no longer can spawn under the floor in Silver Cascade Zone.
– Fixed some major palette issues that made the game’s colors go wonky after using Alt+Tab or when starting the game initially.
- Fixed the MS Address, and implemented redirects to ensure that anyone with an old config will be sent to the correct address.
- Fixed issues with team scrambling, and consistency failures resulting from the feature.
- Fixed a logic error that allowed netgames with large quantities of players to desynchronize.
- Fixed a typo that prevented linedef type 503 from working.
- Fixed a loophole where collecting an emerald token with all 7 chaos emeralds allowed players to ‘cheat’ the perfect bonus.
- Fixed an obscure error that allowed players to join CTF games without being on a team.
- Fixed the ping command.
- Fixed an issue where a lengthy CECHO could crash the game.
- Fixed an exploit where players could enable cheats in single player and have them carry over to multiplayer.
- Fixed an obscure issue with AUTOAIM that disabled the feature if you had any rail ammo.
- Fixed an issue with too many colormaps crashing the game.
- Various fixes and enhancements to Tag mode.
- Fixed the heat wave weather effect.
- Fixed improperly flipped objects in reverse gravity.
- Fixed tons of misc. bugs reported on the boards.

2.0.6 - May 31st, 2010
General
– OpenGL has officially been enabled, use the -opengl parameter to activate it. As always, OpenGL is unsupported, so if something doesn’t display right, we’re not going to be worrying about it.
– Compiled the EXE using GCC to prevent errors concerning consistency protection and dedicated servers.
– Added support for per-level palettes.
– Moved SRB2’s levels to a new resource file, zones.dta.
– PNG screenshots now include map, level, and location metadata.
– Updated SOCEdit to function with the latest version of SRB2.
– Brak Eggman’s missiles now aim slightly above the player, rather than at their feet.
– Hall of mirrors protection now defaults to off due to framerate problems in 2.0.5.

Levels
GFZ1:
– Thickened the thok barrier around the spikes, preventing the player from being able to spindash through it.
– Altered the tunnel near the start and the tunnel near the emerald token to use FOFs.
GFZ2:
– Fixed a few hall of mirrors.
– Fixed a bad midtexture offest.
DSZ1:
– Fixed a rather ugly broken sector.
– Fixed columns not having water in them after receding.
– Squared off the outside edges of the broken fountain at the start. It doesn’t look quite the same, but it fixes being able to run straight through some of its walls.
– Fixed a couple walls in the starting area that didn’t have the NOCLIMB flag.
– Slightly changed the shape of the broken fountain at the level start, as you could run straight through its low walls.
DSZ2:
– Fixed the waterslide area not having flat scrolling.
– Hopefully fixed the zoom tube near the emerald token from not always working on the first try.
– Fixed a rather odd broken sector on the big water slide.
DSZ3:
– Made the center pipe slightly thicker to prevent thokking and spinning through it.
CEZ1:
– Fixed some cliffs that were set as death pits.
– Fixed a fence section where the fake floor was in a different place than the fence graphic.
– Fixed some rings that had the wrong offset.
CEZ2:
– Fixed a button not going down all the way.
– Fixed a set of three flags being in a stupid location.
– Fixed not being able to get Tails’ emblem and restored the FOFs that go over the spike balls in that room.
– Fixed a waving polyobject flag being rotated to the right upon one of the buttons being hit.
ACZ1:
– Fixed the tops of some pulleys being death pits.
– Fixed rope stack from not all scrolling properly.
– Fixed ropes scrolling improperly.
RVZ1:
– Replaced depreciated air bobbing platforms with the correct bobbing platform.
– Did a find and replace to get rid of the old lava textures/flats and replace with the new ones.
– Restored the springs used to propel oneself out of the lava after collecting the emerald token to their former location.
– Moved a spring that was in a strange location to a more logical one.
– Added three springs in various inescapable places if you were invincible or had an elemental shield.
– Added a closing rock door to seal players in so they cannot jump on the platform with the end sign, then escape the room before the lava rises up in single player.
– Fixed the RVZ1 lower path where the lava wouldn’t hurt the player as it drained down the shaft.
– Fixed a small sliver sector that had no lava in it.
ERZ1:
– Fixed some rings not having their float flag checked.
– Fixed the large floor to ceiling crusher not having a texture on its back side.
– Fixed the glass in the scrolling platform room to be the correct size for the opening.
– Fixed two areas in the conveyor room that didn’t have the correct parameters.
– Fixed an area where you could flip gravity infinitely over a deathpit.
ERZ2:
– Fixed three areas where there was no death pit effect.
– Fixed two areas where there was no space countdown effect.
– Put an invisible barrier over the other end of the shrink machine, so one cannot shrink, go through backward and spam the sound indefinitely.
– Fixed the conveyor and laser room before the horizontal crushers.
NAGZ:
– Fixed a missing texture.
– Removed play sound linedef executors.
– Removed run script linedef executors.
Emerald Coast Zone:
– Fixed some sector borders not having grass.
Lime Forest Zone:
– Fixed a visual glitch where bits of a third flag were appearing.
Silver Cascade Zone:
– Fixed emeralds spawning in walls.
– Fixed a misplaced ring box.
Nimbus Ruins Zone
– Fixed a monitor spawning inside of a grenade ring.

Bugfixes
– Fixed CTF flags failing to respawn.
– Fixed issues with the palette when using Alt-Tab.
– Fixed an issue regarding NiGHTS bumpers under flipped gravity.
– Fixed an issue regarding ghost mobjs and FOFs.
– Fixed gravity-flipped rings not respawning with the correct height.
– Tweaked the height of flung emeralds to fix an issue regarding their collision.
– Fixed a few menu strings not having backdrops.
– Fixed an exploit where emeralds carried over from netgames to single player.
– Fixed an issue regarding the MOTD and word-wrapping.
– Fixed RUNSOC modifying the game if it cannot find the specified file.

2.0.7 - September 10th, 2013
    Fixes a major issue with netplay that caused the game to be hypersensitive to denial of service attacks.
    Fixes an issue with lasers in netplay causing consistency failures.
    Fixes a rare crash when using F12 in Capture the Flag mode.
    Low framerate should no longer cause screenshots to be taken improperly.

2.1.0 - March 15th, 2014
Initial release.

2.1.1 - March 15th, 2014
    Fixed an issue that was causing people with non-English locales to have the following issues (among others):
        Knuckles was unable to jump.
        The camera was not properly following the player.
    Nimbus Ruins should now properly work.
    Touching a mine in Deep Sea Zone should no longer crash the game.

2.1.2 - March 17th, 2014
    You can now collect the hidden emblems in record attack; you still can’t get the record attack emblems in the normal game, though.
    Fixed a major issue with joining mid-round in netgames. Hopefully this should help deal with a lot of the quirky behavior netgames are currently experiencing.
    Fixed an issue where adding WAD files while running a server would always remove you from your own server.
    Fixed an issue with one of the secret stages being impossible to complete.
    Fixed a bunch of little level errors.
    Fixed a bunch of other minor bugs.

2.1.3 - March 18th, 2014
    Castle Eggman 3:
        Fixed a crash when hanging on the center chain as it disappears.
        You should no longer be able to dodge the spikeballs by standing up against the walls.
        Minor map related modifications to make the pinch phase a bit easier.
    Visual errors with objects extremely far above or below you have been fixed.
    Fixed the game freezing in some circumstances without producing an error log; most notably in Red Volcano 1.
    You can no longer pause the game in Record Attack or NiGHTS Mode.
    Fixed the -room command line parameter; hosting on the Master Server through the command line is now possible again.
    A few other minor map related fixes.
    A few minor display issues were fixed.

2.1.4 - March 21st, 2014
    The multiplayer consistency protection code was rewritten to help netgames be more stable.
    You can now add files to your own server without kicking yourself out of the game (fixed for real this time).
    A lot of video code was rewritten to add features to both renderers.
        OpenGL now has proper transparent patch support, and can now draw both the cropped pictures in the character select menu and the small player icons used for continues.
        OpenGL should now draw the menus and HUD in their proper locations.
        OpenGL now supports skyboxes.
        OpenGL should now support MD2s better.
        Software now supports the translucent HUD option.
        Software now supports drawing any patch at any size with any translucency level and colormap. (This is mostly of interest to those doing Lua scripted HUD work.)
    Additional functions added to the HUD library for Lua scripting.
    Analog mode is now properly saved and restored after exiting the game.
    More minor bugfixes and level related fixes.

2.1.5 - March 23rd, 2014
    Numerous errors in Egg Rock Zone 3 were fixed.
        If you have any Record Attack replays for ERZ3, you must remove them before trying to play ERZ3 in Record Attack again. This is because some of the old bugs resulted in writing corrupt data to the replay files.
    Fixed character switching while Super Sonic in netgames leaving you stuck as another character with one of Super Sonic’s flashing colors.
    Fixed an issue with resynching CTF netgames.
    Once again fixed the game crashing if you were hanging on the center chain as the CEZ3 boss dies.
    Fixed the final boss’s bombs causing major lag in certain situations.
    More minor level fixes.
    Lua:
        HUD drawing functions can now use v.patchExists(string) to check if a patch exists without having to cache it.
        Three extra configurable buttons were added that Lua can use for custom actions.

2.1.6 - March 24th, 2014
    A timer was added when replaying the special stage levels via NiGHTS Mode.
    Fixed CTF mode for what will hopefully be the last time.
    Fixed the Scatter Ring not working properly.
    Fixed a crash when two people with Armageddon Shields hit each other.
    Forceskin no longer crashes dedicated servers and also outputs a special message on change.
    Some bugs were fixed regarding Knuckles’s sliding along the ground.
    Still more minor level fixes.

2.1.7 - April 14th, 2014
    Fixed an exploit where Bounce Rings would give rings to teammates without disappearing.
    Fixed an exploit with Tails being able to ascend and keep his flying speed unchanged when over the speed cap.
    Tails was given Super transformation sprites (courtesy of Iceman).
    Fixed Super Knuckles in Match not having a speed bonus applied to his gliding.
    Fixed Knuckles being able to use the Whirlwind Shield after leaving a glide.
    The Final Boss now conveys a certain line-of-sight attack with a guideline as well as a target.
    Fixed custom Record Attack replays not working for maps above a certain number.
    Fixed ghosts in Egg Rock Zone 2 always being flipped, even when they left the starting area.
    Fixed bounded console variables being set to MIN when given any string (including MAX).
    Many small fixes were made to OpenGL rendering, including fixing Splitscreen mode not working properly.
    Many fixes and minor changes were made to the maps.
    Lua:
        Optimized the Lua backend a bit. There should be less lag when using Lua, especially in object-heavy levels.
        The game no longer crashes if you refer to a custom console command with the wrong case.
        The game’s internal console commands can now be replaced with Lua console commands.

2.1.8 - April 19th, 2014
    Fixed an exploit in netplay that would crash the game for all connected players.
    Fixed an issue with the GIF movie code that would occasionally output corrupt files.
    Fixed a few more issues with OpenGL rendering (and included the proper r_opengl.dll this time).
    Fixed a few Lua hooks that completely stopped working in 2.1.7.

2.1.9 - August 3rd, 2014
    The netcode is dramatically more stable, especially when new players are joining. This of course doesn’t mean it’s perfect, but it should be much better than before.
    Late joiners in Special Stages in Co-op now spectate until the end of the map instead of interfering with other players and/or exiting the map early.
    Many bugs in the engine and level design that were reported on the forums were fixed.
    Egg Rock Zone 3 now supports the Competition and Race game modes.
    Lots of new functionality has been added to Lua scripting for use in modifications. Additions include (but are not limited to):
        Hooks for player skin abilities and multiplayer chat events.
        Custom map header options.
        Many sorely-needed functions in the game’s code were opened up for use in Lua.

2.1.10 - August 5th, 2014
    Longstanding issues with Lua’s stability have been fixed.
        Lua can tolerate large scripts much better.
        Lua can handle multiple separate scripts running at the same time much better than before; you should no longer have to fiddle around with adding WAD files in different orders to make the game stable.
        The game no longer crashes if scripts are added via the command line (-file) that replace commands normally present in the game.
    The game no longer crashes if you try to host your own server after failing to join someone else’s server due to not being able to download WAD files.
    The game no longer crashes at the end of the last special stage, and the shrink ray section now works again.
    A few minor level design fixes.

2.1.11 - August 26th, 2014
    Fixed game state becoming indeterminate if a player leaves while resynching, often causing crashes or game freezes.
    Monitors on moving/bouncing platforms are no longer deadly to touch.
    Fixed an exploit where characters could be changed while continuing in Single Player.
    Fixed game freeze on Egg Satellite Zone in OpenGL.
    Fixed missing emblem on Flooded Cove Zone.
    Minor optimization/speed related improvements.
    Minor level design fixes.
    Fixed patches wrapping from the right side to the left side even when they weren’t supposed to.
    Detons no longer murder their resident animals if they strike a wall or object.

2.1.12 - November 11th, 2014
    srb2win.exe is now running under SDL2. Should you have problems with the new version, srb2dd.exe uses the old behavior, but please report any issues you may have so we can fix them for later versions.
    Improved polyobject rendering and physics. Polyobjects can now render flats, and players will experience proper preservation of momentum when jumping onto or off of one.
    Because of the above fix, conveyor belts no longer make players rocket forward when spinning. RIP best bug ever. You will be missed. ;_;
    NiGHTS Attack now has support for replays and ghosts like Record Attack.
    Several rings embedded in the ceiling have been fixed.
    FOFs, polyobjects and the replay in ERZ3 properly synchronize in netgames.
    Analog mode works in netgames.
    Sky walls no longer draw objects located behind them in OpenGL mode.
    Portals are now properly functional, but only in software mode.
    Added a couple new linedef types.
    Fixed crash involving Lua scripts performing modulo by 0.
    FOF side textures with holes no longer bug out in the software renderer.
    Lua’s HUD library supports patch colormapping.
    Tons of little bugfixes we’ve since forgotten.

2.1.13 - December 31st, 2014
    Vertical and horizontal mouse sensitivity can now be changed separately.
    Walls and sprites should now stay the same brightness in Software mode regardless of resolution.
    Fixed major rendering issues in Aerial Garden Zone and possibly other excessively large maps.
    Fixed some issues where the player could become partially embedded in walls and/or continue running against the wall as if it didn’t exist.
    Fixed crashes related to polyobject floors.
    Fixed crashes related to joining a netgame in maps containing a laser. (e.g.: Noxious Factory Zone)
    Fixed CTF flags doing stupid things for what is hopefully the last time.
    Various minor level design fixes.
    Many fixes and improvements were made to the SDL2 version of the game, as reported on the forums.

2.1.14 - December 31st, 2014
Fixed a critical bug involving flamethrowers.

2.1.15 - May 19th, 2016
    Slopes! Forever is a long time coming. Note that none of the existing levels are modified; you’ll have to wait until 2.2 for that. The primary reason for this release is so that modders can finally use slopes without having to resort to alternate EXEs, as they’ve been doing for months now. Just be warned that while OpenGL has support for slopes, it is only partially complete in that renderer and not fully tested.
    To go along with slopes, physics have been slightly changed for moving platforms and polyobjects. Jumping off of a platform moving upwards now gives your jump a height boost, for instance.
    Added FF_ANIMATE, a flag for creating simple, single state animations. Instead of creating 30 states for your 30 frame ring animation, you can now just create one to achieve the same effect.
    Music slots are removed. No longer do you have to call your music lumps O_MAP##M; you can now call them anything you want. Anything. As long as it’s six or less characters, I guess.
    Lots of changes and fixes to Lua and SOC. We’ll go over some of the important ones briefly:
    ** A PlayerSpawn hook was added to Lua, allowing a lot easier and better control over what happens when players spawn or join the game.
        The lines comprising a sector may now be gotten in Lua with (sector).lines.
        HUD scripts in Lua can now access the game’s current resolution (width and height), along with dupx and dupy (the sizes for automatic patch scaling).
        “Lua.” custom level header options in SOC won’t eat parts of future level header definitions by mistake. We made sure to feed the parsers properly this time, with high quality kibbles and bits.
        “MUSIC = (name)” was added to level headers and cutscenes in SOC to accommodate the above removal of music slots.
        A lot of error messages were changed to make what’s going wrong easier to understand, especially variable out of range errors.
        SOC scripts can now be named SOC_, to go along with Lua scripts being named LUA_. This means you can actually organize multiple SOC scripts into WAD files, instead of having to stick everything in MAINCFG.
    Fixed issues with polyobject spawning and other assorted weird things they would do.
    Fixed pro-strat launching-yourself-off-CEZ-chains-within-1-tic abuse. Sorry, speedrunners.
    Fixed a lot of bugs in the menu relating to pressing combinations of enter and escape rapidly. Sorry, keyboard mashers.
    Fixed a very, very long-standing bug where garbage would be drawn to screen in certain situations if you ran under or flew over an FOF.
    Minor map adjustments and fixes, scattered throughout the single player maps and multiplayer maps.
    Lastly, in this little space at the end of the ‘important’ patch notes, I would like to give a sad goodbye to our old friend, That One Snailer. You all know him very well, but now he is no longer with us. He will be missed. (not)
    That’s all of the important stuff out of the way, but there’s lots more technical changes we haven’t mentioned so far. You can find that information after the break.
    The game’s internal PRNG was changed to an xorshift* PRNG, which is hopefully faster and more random than the PRNG previously used. Some functions have also been updated to take advantage of this, as the new PRNG now returns fixed point numbers from [0, 1) instead of single bytes.
        P_Random() is deprecated, function renamed to P_RandomByte()
        P_RandomFixed() was added (fetches a fixed point number from [0, 1) straight from the PRNG)
        P_RandomChance(p) was added (returns true p% of the time, where p is a fixed point number from 0 to 1; for example, P_RandomChance(FRACUNIT/2) returns true 50% of the time)
    Lua and SOC fixes and changes not listed above:
        Garbage cleanup now per step instead of every code execution (speed up)
        Fixed inconsistent DrawFill behavior between renderers, for Lua scripts using it.
        Super colors were added to colors list.
        VERSION, SUBVERSION, and VERSIONSTRING are accessible as constants.
        EvalMath in Lua is now deprecated and not to be used. Use _G[] instead.
        Fixed A_ChangeAngleAbsolute in Lua.
        Fixed FixedDiv(n, 0) and FixedSqrt(-1) crashes (now properly gives an error message)
        Fixed map header info in Lua being fetched wrong (strings held garbage data, which messed up comparisons)
        tan() fixed — requires using tan(angle, true) for backwards compatibility purposes
        NetArchiveHook fixes. Still don’t know if it works, but there’s a better chance it does now.
        P_ClosestPointOnLine supports defining an arbitrary line
        Player times hit added (was previously missing)
        “TITLE”, “EVALUATION”, “CREDITS” are now accepted alternates for level header nextmap = 1100, 1101, 1102
    Fixed fades. For Software, they work a bit faster. For OpenGL, they actually work all the time now.
    Fixed FLIPCAM2 not actually being initialized, and thus not usable.
    Fixed ‘allocating’ out of range map headers when going to the credits. This caused very, very rare crashes if the stars * aligned just perfectly.
    Fixed springs launching unrelated things into the air in weird cases.
    Fixed the lack of respawn invulnerability in Race.
    Fixed F12ing a player in analog mode causing the player’s camera to be rotated when returning to their view.
    Fixed F-keys that go to menu options going to the wrong menus if you backed out.
    Fixed the Recycler partying like it was 2010 again and shuffling Super status away from Super players.
    Fixed the edges of the BLOCKMAP not working properly sometimes (running past one-sided linedefs, etc).
    Fixed the old special stage timer disappearing.
    Fixed lighting parity between resolutions.
    Fixed lighting oddities when changing FOF flags through the linedef executor.
    Fixed backwards Tag/Hide and Seek suicide conditions.
    *Fixed bad skin names locally causing problems such as being completely unable to move.
    Fixed the OpenGL ghosting effect mentioned in the previous release.
    Temporarily removed the ability to change MIDI volume, due to the headaches caused by it (Spontaneous muting of the EXE, the volume getting adjusted in Windows Mixer for no good reason, etc)
    Portals now properly draw the sky from the viewpoint the player would have if they were actually at that position, and they don’t screw up the sky for the regular view anymore either.
    Spectators being crushed no longer prints a death message.
    Improvements to splitscreen:
        In co-op, both players can trigger the game over music.
        In co-op, the music will return to normal after a game over after enough time, like it does online.
        In CTF, improved sound cues.
    The palette cycling for Super players was slowed down significantly.
    Custom characters can now freely set the flag to turn Super, and Super Sonic’s float is no longer automatically given to them whether they want it or not
    If you can turn super after getting all the emeralds, the Special Stage score tally screen now tells you this.
    Special stages now fade to white with a sound effect when you enter them.

2.1.16 - September 6th, 2016
    A ton of slope changes! Some say they weren't ready for .15, so we put some effort into fixing them up for primetime.
        Teetering on the edge of platforms and ledges now takes slopes into account.
        Slopes can have their physics disabled by applying the No Sonic linedef flag to their master linedef. (Zone Builder will probably rename that linedef flag for the slope types soon enough, but until then...)
        Slope physics now take sector gravity into account.
        Vertex slopes now crash with a descriptive error message if they're set up wrong (instead of uselessly declaring a state of PANIC without any diagnostic information).
    Software renderer fixes! Because it really needed the love.
        Fixed the most common way the software renderer could crash in 2.1.15.
        Fixed sloped FOFs with translucent pixels in Software losing their translucency when enveloped in a colormap.
        Fixed skybox positioning being visually inconsistent between chasecam and first person mode.
        Fixed sprites in skyboxes being drawn with weird artifacting.
        Fixed the linedef backside textures of Polyobjects floating above the polyobject's position.
        Single-sided linedef skewing now behaves like midtexture skewing - the No Midtexture Skew linedef flag disables, instead of it being on by default.

*OpenGL renderer fixes! #notallimplementations
* Lower unpegged in OpenGL is now consistent with its new behaviour introduced in Software mode from 2.1.15 onwards.
* Fixed an issue with OpenGL where a specific arrangement of floor and ceiling slopes caused HOMs.

    P_GetMobjGravity(mobj) is a new function available to Lua. Death to the terrible hacks you may or may not have been using previously!
    Knuckles can now climb on one-sided linedefs that don't have the No Climb flag.
    Fixed an issue where colliding with the edges of Mario blocks, bustable FOFs, and bouncy FOFs was extremely unreliable. (Man, how old is this bug? And it was a one letter typo, too. I am a goddess.)
    Fixed falling through a reverse platform FOF clipping you downwards (and vice versa with reverse gravity and normal platforms).
    Running into a spring that's on a slope will now always send you on the path of the spring instead of sending you off at an awkward angle. This also goes for gas jets.
    Fixed gas jets jumping around on slopes. You don't want to know how we found this bug.
    Flung Match Emeralds now disappear in death pits instead of uselessly bouncing until the cows come home.
    Fixed zero-length REJECT lumps reading arbitrary memory. Now you can use ZDBSP to nodesbuild your SRB2 maps if you really want to!
    We, uh, accidentially compiled 2.1.15 without any optimisations turned on. Enjoy the game having playable performance again!

General

    We, uh, accidentally compiled 2.1.15 without any optimizations turned on. Sorry about that – the framerate in this version should be way better…
    Knuckles can now climb on one-sided linedefs that don’t have the No Climb flag. This means thok barriers are no longer needed outside of decorative uses.
    Fixed an issue where colliding with the edges of Mario blocks, bustable FOFs, and bouncy FOFs was extremely unreliable.
    Fixed falling through a reverse platform FOF clipping you downwards (and vice versa with reverse gravity and normal platforms).
    Fixed FF_SHATTERBOTTOM FOFs acting like THZ goop when stood on.
    Thrown match emeralds now disappear in death pits instead of uselessly bouncing off.
    Fixed an issue where the NiGHTS drone was visible at the end of a special stage for a single tic.
    P_GetMobjGravity(mobj) is a new function available to Lua.
    You can now disable the weapon rings and power stones displays from ringslinger gametypes using Lua.
    Single-sided linedef skewing now behaves like midtexture skewing; the No Midtexture Skew linedef flag disables, instead of it being on by default.
    Fixed several issues with the Solid Midtexture linedef flag not playing nicely with the Peg Midtexture and Repeat Midtexture flags.
    Cleaned up the error message when failing to load a sprite that doesn’t have enough rotations.
    The game will no longer crash whenever it gets lost trying to find a special linedef from a tag number.
    Fixed an issue with one custom cutscene immediately following another causing the game to softlock.
    If the game becomes modified during a record attack run, the run will now immediately end.
    Using the -warp game startup parameter will now let you know if you are attempting to access an invalid map lump.
    Fixed zero-length REJECT lumps reading from arbitrary memory.

Slopes

    Teetering on the edge of platforms and ledges now takes slopes into account.
    Slopes can have their physics disabled by applying the No Sonic linedef flag to their master linedef. (Zone Builder will probably rename that linedef flag for the slope types soon enough, but until then…)
    Slope physics now take sector gravity into account.
    Non-player objects are now able to move up and down slopes much smoother.
    Vertex slopes now crash with a descriptive error message if they’re set up incorrectly.
    Fixed a crash caused by hitting a bouncy wall whilst on a slope.
    Fixed an issue where Knuckles attempted to climb on thin air above a slope in 2D mode.
    Bustable FOFs with sloped planes now have accurate collision bounds.
    Running into a spring or gas jet on a slope will now always send you on the correct path instead of at an awkward angle.
    Fixed gas jets having dance parties on slopes.

Software

    Fixed most, if not all, crashes caused by drawing parts of textures offscreen. These crashes alone caused many of the annoying crashes people have recently been reporting, so software mode should now be a lot more stable to play with.
    Fixed sloped FOF planes with translucent pixels losing their translucency when enveloped in a colormap.
    Fixed a crash caused by wedge-shaped FOFs mistakenly attempting to draw the top of its side textures below its bottom.
    Fixed skybox positioning being visually inconsistent between chasecam and first person mode.
    Fixed sprites in skyboxes being drawn with weird artifacting.
    Fixed the linedef backside textures of polyobjects floating above the polyobject’s position.

OpenGL

    Lower unpegged is now consistent with the new software mode behavior introduced in 2.1.15.
    Fixed specific arrangments of floor and ceiling slopes causing HOMs and other visual glitches.

2.1.17 - January 17th, 2017
    Netgame stability:
        Fixed an issue where the server wouldn’t resend packets properly. (This is a gross simplification of the issue, but it gets the general point across.)
        It is now possible to ‘kick’ a player in mid-join, while they are downloading the game state.
        Downloading files is now much faster.
    The console has been heavily revamped.
        It’s now possible to move the input cursor left and right, as well as selecting multiple characters at the same time using the shift keys.
        Clipboard support has been added. CTRL+C copies selected text, and CTRL+V pastes any text that’s in your clipboard, similar to most other programs.
        Fixed pressing multiple modifier keys down at the same time.
    Collision fixes:
        Fixed Knuckles being able to climb on air.
        Fixed upside-down springs launching themselves off of ceilings again.
        Fixed springs (and any other non-moving objects with gravity) falling through one-way platform blocks.
        Jumping into a solid object now properly stops your momentum.
        Collision boxes for solid objects now extend downwards properly.
    Software renderer fixes:
        Players don’t disappear into FOFs anymore if they have a shield (or another overlay) attached to them and spindash on top of it.
        Translucent polyobjects with planes now work properly instead of causing crashes.
        The game no longer crashes if you view a wall with an invalid, but well-defined “texture” name (e.g.: a sound effect name, for the Play Sound linedef).
        Repeating Midtextures no longer have messed up lighting under certain circumstances.
        Fixed animated textures with holes displaying garbage for the first frame they’re visible.
    OpenGL renderer fixes:
        Fixed MD2 models with too many vertices causing memory corruption; these MD2s are ignored instead.
        Precipitation (rain, snow, etc.) actually shows up now.
    More minor unrelated changes and/or fixes:
        Fixed problems with Egg Guards’ shields exploding a physically impossible number of times.
        Fixed issue with switching skins incorrectly being allowed during credits and custom cutscenes in single-player.
        Fixed the FixedFloor, FixedTrunc, FixedCeil and FixedRound Lua functions returning garbage.
        Rope hangs and zoom tubes have smoother behavior near their waypoints.
        Pusher specials applied to FOFs now properly account for slopes applied to the bottom plane.
        The ” character is now treated as whitespace in TEXTURES and ANIMDEF lumps, allowing for better compatibility with SLADE’s relevant lump-editing tools.
        Providing negative scales to v.drawScaled in Lua doesn’t crash anymore.
        Changing sector flats in netgames using Lua scripting no longer causes the game to crash for new joiners.

2.1.18 - May 12th, 2017

    Netgame fixes:

    Fixed an exploit where malformed
    packets with invalid node identifiers caused the server to crash.

    Made the server recognise verified admin players’ bans, as opposed to only treating them as unenforced kicks.

    Fixed the fact that the allowteamchange console variable was [I]completely broken[/I], having previously caused both desynchronisations and crashes when switched off.

    Console fixes:

    Fixed an issue where the addfile command was incapable of locating files in subdirectories whilst in netgames.

    Fixed character selection from the command line (and therefore via launchers and level editors) being disabled.

    Fixed the dedicated server console window not handling key combinations involving the Ctrl, Alt or Shift modifier keys.

    Software rendering fixes:

    The game no longer crashes whlst attempting to render certain types of FOF off the top or bottom of the screen.

    Precipitation being off the top or bottom of the screen no longer causes visual artifacting (or, in rare cases, crashes).

    Fixed various issues with the v.DrawFill function. This includes its shoddy handling of V_SNAPTO flags, amongst other quality of life improvements.

    Minor, unrelated fixes:

    Fixed an issue where falling rock hazards could linger in perpetuity after colliding with slopes.

    Fixed a crash caused by Jet Jaw badniks attempting to attack players who had had the “MF_SHOOTABLE” object flag removed through add-ons.

    Fixed a crash caused by attempting to execute the “Call Lua Function” linedef executor with blank fields.

    Fixed an issue where attempting to have more than 10,000 screenshots in your screenshots directory was erroneously allowed.

2.1.19 - May 29th, 2017

    Netgame fixes:
        Patched a few more crash-causing exploits enabled by malformed packets, as discussed above.
        Fixed cooperative intermission bonuses such as extra lives not being awarded server-side on dedicated servers, leading to desynchronisation.
        Fixed an issue where you could join a netgame despite having too many files loaded to be able to match the server's file list, leading to desynchronisation.
        Fixed an issue where you stayed connected to a netgame when you have too many files loaded to apply one the host added, leading to desynchronisation.
        Inform the adminplayer when they send an addfile request that can't be completed because the host has too many files added.
        Fixed a bizzare issue where, if you quit a server the moment you create it, you will be instantly kicked if you make a new one.

    Minor, unrelated fixes:
        Fixed an issue where missiles were able to effortlessly glide up slopes without exploding.
        Corrected a log message informing the player that they had extra colormaps on game startup when none were actually available.
        Removed a typo resulting in the NiGHTS capsule having the red ring's skincolor applied on spawn.

2.1.20 - January 2nd, 2018, 8:57pm
    Changes with major impact:
    IMPORTANT: SRB2 now detects mouse movement in a much better way. If you’ve been having issues since Windows 10 last updated, this is for you.
    Fixed downloads from servers being dropped whenever someone new attempted to join.
    Fixed several minor compounding issues with resynchronisation in netgames, which may have significant effect.
    Fixed a crash when removing thinkers (mobjects and the like) whilst running thinkers.iterate() in Lua.
    Fixed a crash caused by Lua scripts calling CV_RegisterVar on existing console variable names.
    Modified Lua’s “PlayerSpawn” hook to call its associated functions even if the player spawned at a checkpoint instead of a player start.
    Fixed Linedef type 414 crashing the game if an invalid sound number was supplied somehow.
    Linedef type 8 (Special Sector Properties)’s ability to trigger sector specials by touching sector edges (turned on by the “Peg Midtexture” flag) now works as intended.
    A restartaudio function is now available. If you change audio output device mid-game, run this command in the console and things should be taken care of.
    This isn’t really a code-side thing, but the person you should contact to get a Mod ID in future should be Rob.

*** Changes with minor impact:**

    Once AGAIN we have tamed the silly springs so they no longer try to jump with the player. They are now only solid to anything they can’t launch.
    Fixed Record Attack demos not recording changes to the player’s scale/size properly, which resulted in ghosts disappearing sometimes if they attempted to grow bigger.
    You can no longer kick or ban players outside of netgames. This means you can’t kick Tails out in Sonic & Tails mode in Single Player, sorry. =) Likewise with Player 2 in splitscreen mode.
    Fixed the Lua function P_FloorzAtPos not considering slopes for normal floors.
    Fixed save games for a custom mod not saving to custom home folder.
    Fixed Linedef types 305-307 (the Character Ability trigger linedef specials) being completely broken.
    Fixed FOFs causing Each Time effects on the ground below to fire.
    Fixed air-bobbing platforms’ undersides performing bizarre, undesired movements.
    Fixed sloped Quicksand and space countdown FOFs. Quicksand now also supports reverse gravity.
    Fixed a bug with being able to go under lava FOFs with slopes, due to the solid lava code not supporting slopes properly. The Lua functions P_CheckSolidLava and P_CanRunOnWater now also support slopes as a result.
    Fixed the TIME/SCORE part of the Single Player/Coop HUD moving position when the tally screen starts if you are using a non-green resolution. Also, the time display at the tally screen no longer limits the minute number to between 0 and 59.
    Fixed OpenGL screenshots appearing greyscale and distorted when taken in the 1366×768 resolution.
    Fixed a Software renderer-only glitch where PolyObject walls could sometimes be seen through level boundaries in other areas, turning anything above and below into HOM or skybox.
    Fixed some OpenGL-only glitches involving sloped FOFs with lighting.
    Fixed MD2 interpolation not working under certain circumstances (particularly if an object’s state has a finite duration normally, but the object has made it infinite instead).

2.1.21 - December 7th, 2018, 3:16pm
Major impact changes:

    New default controls: We revised our default controls so that our new players may play more effectively. They default to first-person style movement controls using the W-A-S-D keys, while the camera is controlled using the mouse or arrow keys. Read How to Play for a short explanation of these controls.

    If you are upgrading from an existing SRB2 installation, you will keep your old controls.
    Improved Gamepad Support: It is now entirely possible to operate SRB2 on a gamepad alone. Analog sticks are now active on the menu. We improved their sensitivity to be less slippery in-game. We also allow you to map any button to pop up the system menu, take a screenshot, or make a GIF. Just don't forget to set your button controls in the Options.
    PK3 addons: SRB2 now supports PK3-format addons! PK3 is a compressed format that allows addon authors to use a folder structure that organizes graphics, Lua, SOCs, maps, and everything else into one package. Now addons can be smaller, more organized, and more future-proof for later requirements.
    First 64-bit release: We are now releasing SRB2 in both 32-bit and 64-bit formats. For the most demanding content, you may enjoy up to a 64% performance boost! Netgaming is compatible between 32-bit and 64-bit players. Most, if not all addons will work with the two versions.

    If you have a computer built after 2004, you can most likely run the 64-bit release.
    Linux and macOS releases: Cross-platform is back in style! We have an APT repository link for Ubuntu and Debian users, while macOS users can download a DMG install package. Again, these versions are netgame-compatible and 99% of addons should work as intended.

    However, these are experimental releases and we may not provide them in the future. Please give us feedback and submit bugs!

Minor impact changes:

    OpenGL performance: OpenGL has been made more performant and has received a few visual fixes. Large maps (such as Aerial Garden) now render more reliably. Screenshots and wipes now work correctly on non-native resolutions.
    Lua additions: Lua now has support for slopes, including P_GetZAt() to get the Z position of a sloped point. You can use searchBlockmap to look for objects within proximity. For HUD, hud.enabled() and v.getLocalTransFlag() are added. There is now a PlayerQuit hook, as well as a variable to check for Ultimate Mode.
    No more SRB2DD: As of this release, we are dumping the old srb2dd.exe. We have kept it for compatibility reasons in the past, but we did not support it. A significant bug has now prevented us from releasing it further. Please use srb2win.exe from now on -- it is more stable and it has the newest fixes. 

This release has a large collection of individual bug fixes, so go after the jump to read them!
Changelog
Editing

    New Feature: PK3 support added, go nuts!
    New Feature: Textures on FOF walls can now be skewed with respect to slopes.
    New Feature: To allow fullbright sprites to be displayed as fullbright under translucent FOF planes, you can now use particular settings on the middle texture of a colormap linedef to control this feature (best explained on the wiki really)
    Fixed Bouncy FOF and Space Countdown sector specials working on FOFs that don't have the FF_EXISTS flag
    Added support for multi-patch middle textures on two-sided linedefs with both invisible pixels and translucency in the Software renderer.
    Fix for Objectplace: Fixed NiGHTS bumper angles being reset when the "writethings" console command is used.
    Fixed bugs with alternative view points (Report 1, Report 2) 

Lua

    New Feature: Added Lua support for slopes, as well as the function P_GetZAt to use them with.
    New Feature: Added searchBlockmap to look for objects within proximity of a point.
    New Feature: Added hud.enabled() and v.getLocalTransFlag() for Lua's HUD features.
    New Feature: Added the "PlayerQuit" hook for Lua's addHook function, called when the player leaves the game.
    New Feature: Added access to "ultimatemode" as a global variable for Lua, for checking if the game is in ultimate mode or not.
    Fix sector flat names in Lua scripts having hidden characters that mess up string comparisons and prints 

Netgames

    New Feature: We now allow multiple admins for netgames. This support works the same way as in SRB2 Kart: server hosts can promote multiple clients as admins, or clients can login using a password.
    The "name" console variable no longer defaults to the computer's username, but instead "Sonic". (This was done due to concerns about users' real names (or dead names) being leaked without their permission or knowledge IIRC)
    Fix file names being truncated at the download screen when joining a netgame, if the file name or its full path was too long. Additionally, long file names are now handled better at this screen (show my gif here)
    Fixed error when passing an empty address to the "connect" console command
    Fix the maximum player name length in the multiplayer player setup menu being shorter than that of the "name" console command
    Security fix for admin passwords in netgames: Don't allow clever hackers to verify themselves as admins when you haven't even set a password! (This was due to the default being a randomly generated value, which can be predicted if you have the knowledge to do so; now it's just blank, and rejects any and all attempts at logging in)
    Several fixes to net commands in netgames, thanks to LJ Sonic once again
    Fix using "verify" causing issues with adding files later if you are the host
    Fix F12 (the switch player view button) not working sometimes; this can happen if you're playing in windowed mode, and use the left mouse button to return focus. This was because the left mouse button is one of the defaults for firing a ring in multiplayer, and the game never realises you let go in this situation.
    Server names should now be updated on the Master Server instantly
    Fixed servers sometimes disappearing from the in-game server list when you refreshed it.
    Fixed the game giving nonsense update alert messages if the Master Server was not working when attempting to view the server list.
    Fixed desyncs in netgames caused by toggling on analog.
    Fixed the game reading mapheader_t Lua userdata from $$$.sav incorrectly in netgames.
    Fix Thwomps triggering for spectators and when the FOFs themselves don't have the FF_EXISTS flag.
    Fix Mario block FOF textures desyncing in netgames.
    Fix Each Time + floor touch linedef executor setups retriggering in netgames for players who join a server.
    Fix the game's crash error messages for "SOCK_Send" being utterly unhelpful. While the crashes themselves haven't been fixed, the error messages should actually tell you what went wrong more clearly now! 

Crashes

    Hotfix for a "LUA PANIC" crash for the host of a netgame when someone joins the game. This happened if the game attempted to archive Lua tables with certain types of data used as table keys that aren't allowed, e.g. functions or userdata keys.
    Fixes for Lua string archiving in netgames: Lua strings longer than 1024 chars no longer horribly crash the game, and embedded zeros are now properly supported
    Fix a netgame crash relating to Lua-made console commands, particularly if the host receives packets for them when they shouldn't be able to (i.e. if the game hasn't even loaded up Lua yet)
    Fix the game sometimes crashing when joining a netgame, due to the camera lacking a real subsector at map load.
    Fix Single Player savegame slots for nonexistent skins crashing the game when viewed.
    Fix a crash caused by ending a SOC file (e.g. MAINCFG) with a "State" (or "Frame") block with no newline at the end
    Fix crashes with SOCs if you put in lines with no " = " within certain types of SOC blocks.
    Skyboxes no longer break or crash the game after placing items in Objectplace mode.
    Fixed exploits with the "alias" console command that allowed the game to get stuck in recursion cycles, eventually crashing the game.
    (Debugging builds fix) Fix the game crashing when attempting to run the game in dedicated mode 

Engine

    Fix totalplaytime being incremented during a demo playback, including record attack replays
    Movie recordings now record the extra long white intro fades for special stages properly
    Optimised rain/snow thinkers to improve framerate in maps using those weather types.
    Record attack ghosts now spawn properly on slopes
    Fixes for GME music: pausing the game now actually pauses the music, and volume has been increased to fix low volume compared to other digital music
    The default sound volume has been lowered, due to the previous default being too loud.
    The sound, digital and MIDI music toggles are now console variables that are saved to config.cfg: sound, digimusic and midimusic
    Joysticks are now detected by default if plugged in.
    Joystick sensitivity is adjusted to support dead zones, so now they feel less slippery.
    Joysticks now work for navigating menus, and buttons are better mapped to control the menus. 

Program

    (FIX FOR 64-BUILDS AND NON ASM BUILDS OF SRB2): The C version of FixedMul is now consistent with that of the ASM versions. The previous inconsistency between them caused desyncs when 32-bit and 64-bit builds of SRB2 played in netgames with each other. Thanks to tatokis -- besides benefits for Linux building, this means that 64-bit versions of SRB2 are netplay compatible with 32-bit builds now!
    Fixed the sound system initialising when starting the game in dedicated mode, when it shouldn't. This fixes people sometimes hearing level music for a split second when a dedicated server is started, and also saves memory.
    Fix for "playdemo" console variable not working with custom home paths
    The -playdemo and -timedemo command line parameters now work again (they used to freeze the game when used)
    Response files now work in command line parameters! This feature allows you to add in any command line parameters from a text file, by adding @textfile.txt to the parameters. (This features was in for a long time but it never actually worked due to bugs)
    Linux 32-bit fix: Fix the available physical memory reported by "memfree" console command being consistently shown as 48 MB
    Linux fix: Fixed file searching not properly reporting if a file with the wrong MD5 was found, rather than pretending it doesn't exist
    Fixed use of both -server and -connect command line params causing the game to freeze at startup.
    Fix: Invalid Ctrl + some other key combos now do nothing when the console is open, instead of the second key being handled as input by the main game
    In windowed mode, SRB2's icon should now appear as the icon on the window's top bar
    Fixed some memory leaks and other issues to do with SDL2_Mixer, the library SRB2 uses for sound.
    The current renderer is now saved in the metadata for PNG screenshots and APNGs.
    GIF frame delays are more accurate! Previously, GIF were inaccurate by 1 tic every 7 tics, compared to the time actually passed in-game.
    Fix repeatedly adding files already in the game eventually preventing the game from opening, reading and writing all kinds of files (including the game's config and gamedata). 

Renderer

    Many OpenGL fixes (thanks to Sryder for some of these)
        Optimises the screen texture setups so that they aren't redefining textures every frame if they don't need to. This gives a pretty large performance increase, especially on Intel GPUs
        Fix screenshots and fade wipes in SDL2 for resolutions that are lower than the monitor's native resolution
        Match the currently used OpenGL drawing functions to the software ones. There are a few others that don't fully match still, but they also aren't currently used from what I can see, so I have no point of reference for how they should work.
        Make the screen texture be drawn in the centre of the screen with black bars in SDL2, instead of being stretched across the entire screen
        Fixed MD2 interpolation sometimes being jerky
        Fixed Lower unpegged having no effect on FOF walls when applied to the linedefs of the in-level sectors. This is supposed to change pegging of the walls to snap to the FOF's bottom, like in Software
        Fix very large maps (such as Aerial Garden) having rendering issues
        gr_correcttricks should no longer have any effect on sloped sectors.
        Fixed translucent walls displaying glitches when viewed from certain angles.
        The startup screen now actually appears in OpenGL, you finally get to see baby Sonic! =D
        Skies now render correctly in splitscreen mode.
        Linux: Fixed MD2 models not loading correctly 
    Flats in software no longer glitch when looking up and down in first person view.
    Fix software renderer glitches with fog FOF walls when adjacent to sectors with colormap applied.
    Fix 64x64 textures created with TX_START/TX_END being automatically doubled in height in-game. This was meant to be a workaround for an old Doom bug, but it no longer occurs in SRB2 so is not necessary anymore.
    Fixed fading calculations for custom level colormap generation being incorrect
    Fixed HOM removal not working properly in non-green resolutions
    Fix translucency making sprites and other graphics overly dark in areas of maps with low light levels.
    Fixed certain HUD drawing functions not funcioning properly in non-green resolutions
    The video flag V_OFFSET now supports V_FLIP, and no longer does anything if not combined with V_NOSCALESTART (to prevent positioning issues). 

2.1.22 - December 25th, 2018, 8:42pm
Major impact changes:

    Chat Windows: For multiplayer, we added the ability to display the chat in a small window by default. Fans of SRB2 Kart will feel right at home here -- now you can enjoy increased readability, spam filtering, and easy-to-use private messages between players!
    Addons Menu: We also got the beloved Addons Menu! With all of your favorite features from Kart, you may now easily find your addon files in-game without alt-tabbing and fumbling through Windows Explorer.
    Gamepad improvements: We have now added default gamepad buttons, so if you have a supported controller, you no longer need to dive into the options -- just pick up and play! If you are upgrading, the game will add those buttons to your controls as long as a slot is open for that action.
    64-bit OpenGL fixes: A lot of you made it very clear to us that Eggman blew up a hole in GFZ2, so we made him pay dearly for it! All of the holes in OpenGL are now fixed for 64-bit. Additionally, we fixed a visual glitch with shields that you may have experienced in both 32-bit and 64-bit.
    SDL stability and sound fixes: Some people experienced glitchy sound effects due to our attempt to update SDL, the program library that runs our game. A few of you may have also experienced startup and stability crashes. We have now fixed the glitchy sounds, so we are now able to package the latest SDL libraries. By extension, some of the crashes should now be resolved.

Minor impact changes:

    PK3 sprite name fix: We realized that PK3 addons cannot name lumps with a backslash character, which prevented player skins and a few other objects from working properly. We fixed this by allowing you to use the plus character instead, so player skins can now be packaged as PK3.

    To learn how to create PK3 addons, visit our PK3 wiki page.

    Camera tweaks: When you upgrade, you may notice that the camera view looks slightly different -- perhaps less claustrophobic. Also, if you specify custom camera values in the console, they will now be saved to your config.

    Cross-platform fixes: The macOS version was unable to write savegames for mods, so we patched that up and also fixed the path that script files are executed from. We also fixed a few music formats that did not play for that version. The Linux install packages now have srb2 added to the PATH, so you can run the game just by typing in srb2 in the Terminal.

Go after the jump to read the full list of changes!
Changelog
Crashes

    There was a KIMOKAWAIII stage crash related to a remote viewpoint camera that would cut out of existence.
    Some SDL-related crashes have been fixed as a result of us packaging an old SDL version with v2.1.21. The new DLLs supplied with v2.1.22 should fix startup-related crashes and a few stability bugs. 

Editing

    The game now accepts '+' as substitute for '\' for sprite frames in both WAD and PK3. This is important for PK3 as backslashes are invalid name characters.
    The tiny font has been expanded to include symbols and lowercase letters. Thanks Golden!
    The timer behavior for remote viewpoint cameras was fixed. The bug prevented an isometric camera in SUBARASHII from functioning.
    Waypoint PolyObjects can now crush the player.
    SOC: New level header option SAVEOVERRIDE to set whether to force write a savegame or skip saving, per level.
    Lua: FOF flat names no longer return trailing null chars ('\0')
    Lua: New function G_SetMapOverride() to set the next level and optionally skip the tally screen, while not exiting the level immediately a la G_ExitLevel().
    Lua: Fix G_ExitLevel() always skipping the tally screen, even if you did not specify for it.
    Lua: New function R_TextureNumForName() to get a texture name's internal index; and R_CheckTextureNumForName() to check if a texture name exists. 

Game

    The chat window feature is implemented from SRB2 Kart; thanks Lat! See the full list of changes.
    The addons menu from SRB2 Kart is implemented; thanks to toaster for the original code!
    New default joypad buttons have been added, as well as a feature to update the user's config with the new buttons.
    You can now assign Jump and Spin actions to a gamepad axis (such as analog triggers.)
    The player no longer moves from joystick or mouse input while the multiplayer system menu is open.
    In NiGHTS, you can now fly up and down by using the Look Up and Look Down buttons as well as the Look joystick axis.
    In CTF, a sound jingle will now play when the opposing team's flag is returned to base. 

Renderer

    64-bit OpenGL holes are now fixed! This was related to some floating point math that produced invalid results when using optimized instructions. This could have affected 32-bit users if we decided to release faster builds in the future. Thanks to our original progenitors, the Doom Legacy project, for inspiring our fix!
    Shields in OpenGL -- as well as any overlapping object -- no longer produce severe Z-fighting glitches for some users. Shields have never looked so good! Thanks Azeonus!
    The automap now renders in large levels, so you can map out your great escape from Egg Rock Zone!
    A few Software glitches were fixed, relating to horizontal planes. Thanks to our resident cat wizard Jimita for the following:
        Ceilings no longer glitch when looking all the way up
        PolyObjects no longer cause slime trails on adjacent walls
        Sector flats no longer render twice when they are under a PolyObject
        Large rooms no longer produce glitchy artifacts. 

Program

    SDL sound glitches were fixed, meaning that we can now ship SDL 2.0.9 with the latest stability fixes.
    In a multi-monitor setup, the program window will now snap to the center of its currently occupied display.
    In Windows, the mouse will be grabbed by the window automatically on program start as long as its use is enabled.
    Mod savegames now save with proper filenames on all OSes. Previously, their filename was being malformed. This was especially bad on macOS because the entire save location was invalid.
    When using a home folder outside of your SRB2 install (as is default for Mac and Linux), console scripts will now be found in the proper paths. We fixed EXEC, SAVECONFIG, and debugfile to consider home folders.
    The Ubuntu/Debian install package now has a symbolic link for SRB2 in the PATH, so instead of typing /usr/games/SRB2/srb2 to run the game, you now just need to type srb2.
    macOS builds can now play MP3 and FLAC music. 

2.1.23 - December 26th, 2018, 1:10am
Major impact changes:

    Campaign savegames are fixed: The two of you who play SRB2 have pointed out that Single Player savegames do not actually save your progress, even if you selected a save slot. We fixed this so that you can now get out of your chair and grab a cup of milk before you finish the game.

2.1.24 - June 9th, 2019, 7:18am
    APNG recording should now work in the Linux/Mac versions.
    Added the “banip” command, for banning people by IP.
    Editing enchancements for music: song length, positioning, and fading features with Linedef Exec and Lua support (aka Digiku’s”MusicPlus”: see https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/447 for full documentation)
    Fixed dedicated servers timing out after the credits.
    OpenGL: Sprite billboarding can be enabled with the “gr_spritebillboarding” console variable. This just means they’ll always face the camera rather than looking flat as paper.
    “localhost” now works as a valid IP address to join again, after being broken since version 2.0. This means people can now join their own servers without needing to find out their local IP anymore.
    Flash palettes can now appear in screenshots.
    Fixed crashes in netgames that can occur in levels from PK3 files.
    Fixed some elusive software renderer glitches that sometimes effected lighting on FOFs
    An error message is now displayed if you mistakenly added a PNG graphic for a sprite or texture when you shouldn’t have.
    The game should no longer be marked as modified if you added replacements for many HUD graphics, the game’s console font, or some of the graphics used in the menus.
    Oh, yeah, and we doubled all the freeslots for editing resources, which was the whole point of this patch. =P

2.1.25 - August 17th, 2019, 2:11am
    Fixed APNG movies in OpenGL recording the game as completely black.
    Fixed FOF with slopes glitching very briefly at level load.
    Fixed PK3 folders being accidentally loaded as textures, which caused crashes sometimes.
    Fixed the game reading data from past the expected end of per-level colormaps, which could cause crashes somtimes. This happened if you made the colormap with some external program that decided to append some text to the end of the lump to tell you how it was made.
    In netgames, only the server or admins are allowed to skip credits now.
    Fixed several PolyObject physics issues:
        If you were standing on a PolyObject following waypoints, walking off its edge teleported you to the ground.
        Sometimes you could collide with thin air below or above some PolyObjects.
        PolyObjects spawned with the crush spawn point weren’t able to crush you properly sometimes.
    Fixed an exploit where players could steal the final hash of a login.
    Fixed ERZ3 and Pipe Towers Zone spitting console errors on being loaded.

2.2.0 - December 7th, 2019, 4:43pm UTC
Initial release.

General

    Slopes have been implemented into almost the entire campaign, including support for launching off of quarterpipes. No, before you ask, loops still aren’t possible.
    An enormous number of graphics and textures have been updated or redone. Highlights include the title screen, Sonic and Tails, with separate sprites of Tails’s tails for optimum mofumofu.
    Practically the entire soundtrack has been redone.
    Character sprites now face the direction the player’s control inputs point instead of in the direction the camera is facing.
    Automatic braking, a new assist feature, has been added. While enabled, releasing the controls will cause the player’s character to attempt to stop instead of coasting forward.
    Tails’s AI has been significantly improved in Sonic & Tails mode, including allowing him to be commanded to fly you without using player 2’s controls.
    The attraction, elemental, and force shields now have a jump-spin ability like whirlwind and armageddon already did.
    Continuing the game after getting a game over now starts the player with more lives for each continue used.
    The intro cutscene has been revamped with brand-new art, and the game now has a short ending sequence.

Levels

    Arid Canyon Zone Acts 2 and 3 now exist.
    Almost the entire rest of the campaign has been remade from scratch or significantly updated.
    Several bosses have had their arena and behavior updated.
    The final battles have been adjusted to make losing not kick the player all the way back to the beginning of Eggrock.
    A short, optional tutorial stage has been added.
    Two stages previously from the OLDC have been included as unlockables.
    Cooperative mode now uses the old 2.0 special stages, which have been slightly updated to be more multiplayer-friendly.

Interface

    The menus have been massively revamped to both look better and be easier to understand.
    Controls, menus, and various other things have been renamed to make them easier to understand.
    Record attack now has HUD elements to display the buttons being pressed both during gameplay and while watching replays.
    Multiple accessibility features have been added, including closed-captioning and the ability to adjust the palette at runtime to add contrast to aid colorblind players.

Engine/Editing

    The palette has changed again to provide slightly more diverse color options
    Music no longer restarts from the beginning after an interruption, such as getting an extra life.
    Plugging in a controller during gameplay will allow that controller to be used instead of requiring the game to be restarted to recognize it.
    Added support for paper sprites, which allow the sprite to be rendered as if it’s on an upright piece of paper, becoming thinner when viewed at an angle and disappearing entirely when viewed from the side. Think Paper Mario.
    Textures can now be used as flats (but not vice-versa).
    Skybox rendering has been significantly optimized.
    PNG images can now be used as graphics, at any resolution (but not too high or you’ll run out of memory).
    Sprite rotation is now supported.
    libopenmpt support
    Added support for the MD3 model format.
    So many Lua changes we couldn’t possibly hope to list them all here.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.2.1 - February 16th, 2020, 1:39am UTC
Code



!519 (merged)/!546 (merged)/!619 (merged)/!661 (merged)/!715 (merged) - Fixed various issues with and improved OpenGL. Colormaps more accurately match Software's. Fake contrast has been added.

!521 (merged) - Amy now must be at the same height as the player to hug 'em.

!522 (merged) - Fixed Metal Sonic being able to hover while using the Elemental Shield's ability.

!525 (merged) - Improved fades.

!528 (merged) - Fixed the "map" command not being able to warp to maps without a level header.

!529 (merged) - Fixed a bug where changing flats with Lua could lag and crash the game.

!532 (merged) - Fixed Sound Test not showing music if music is disabled.

!534 (merged) - (Lua) Post-level cutscenes may be skipped with G_SetCustomExitVars.

!539 (merged) - Fixed a division by zero if mindash and maxdash were the same.

!540 (merged) - Fixed Tails not being able to go Super with Pandora's Box.

!541 (merged) - Deadzones are now much more precise.

!542 (merged) - (Lua) Fixed an error with #sector.lines.

!543 (merged) - (Lua) Added a bunch of MainCfg variables and tutorialmode to Lua.

!544 (merged) - (Lua) The Team Match/CTF scores HUD elements may be toggled.

!545 (merged) - (Lua) Fixed removing the Dragonbomber on MapLoad crashing the game.

!547 (merged) - Increased the sprite rotation angles from 24 to 72.

!548 (merged) - Flats may be used on walls.

!549 (merged) - GIFs may be recorded under OpenGL.

!550 (merged) - The renderer may now be changed while in game!

!552 (merged) - Fixed the NoTitleCard level flag not working.

!552 (merged) - Added more title card related fields to level headers.

!553 (merged) - The camera turning speed may be adjusted.

!554 (merged) - The game now chooses a random port when connecting to servers.

!555 (merged) - Players now only uncurl from a ball after hitting the ground when using the Elemental Shield's ability. This means you can break those monitors under the goop in THZ2!

!556 (merged) - Knuckles can no longer glide forever after gliding into a Dust Devil.

!557 (merged)/!566 (merged)/!585 (merged)/!601 (merged) - (Lua) Added PlayerThink, TeamSwitch, ViewpointSwitch, SeenPlayer,
PreThinkFrame, PostThinkFrame and MobjLineCollide hooks.

!558 (merged) - Fixed Amy and Fang being able to hurt other players in multiplayer special stages.

!559 (merged) - Fixed the Super theme expiring with the Invinciblity theme.

!566 (merged) - Custom gametypes may be added.

!575 (merged) - (Lua) Fixed a bug where ShouldDamage/MobjDamage/MobjDeath hooks would have totally mucked up parameters under certain conditions.

!583 (merged) - (Lua) Added CV_FindVar to Lua.

!584 (merged) - Fixed Metal Sonic being able to pop the enemy team's monitors in Team Match/CTF.

!586 (merged) - Optimized PolyObjects. Maybe CEZ2 is a teeny bit better?

!589 (merged) - Fixed certain objects breaking for players joining mid level, like CEZ's waving flags.

!592 (merged)/!705 (merged)/!733 (merged)/!781 (merged) - Added missing constants and fixed broken ones for SOC and Lua.

!593 (merged) - Fixed Emerald Hunt.

!596 (merged) - The -warp parameter now works with map names.

!597 (merged) - Copy and pasting now works with the "Specify IPv4 Address" text box.

!599 (merged)/!708 (merged) - Provided you opt in, real spaces may be used in MUSICDEF text fields.

!600 (merged) - Fixed the Ambush flag not working on saloon doors.

!602 (merged) - (Lua) Local commands may now be added.

!603 (merged) - Fixed some sounds being unusable by the game.

!606 (merged) - Fixed giving unknown gametypes to the map command crashing the game.

!608 (merged) - Fixed minecart spawners spawning a new minecart if the player is already riding one.

!611 (merged) - Fixed Tails' flight indicator not being removed if Player 2 takes over.

!612 (merged) - Fixed Metal Sonic's jet fume staying translucent after exiting water.

!613 (merged) - Fixed the flames from the Elemental Shield's ability not matching the player's gravity.

!615 (merged) - Fixed the game crashing if a player is being carried when multiplayer special stages end.

!617 (merged) - The mouse is now released from the window while in the menu or if the game is paused.

!618 (merged) - Adjusted how the character's name is drawn on the HUD.

!623 (merged) - Some netvars are no longer saved to the config.

!625 (merged) - Added Knuckles.

!626 (merged) - Added a generic signpost for characters that don't have their own.

!638 (merged) - Fixed modified color profiles having no effect in some cases.

!641 (merged) - Fixed a bug where Amy's hearts could crash the game.

!645 (merged) - Fixed highresscale not applying on the Continue screen.

!646 (merged) - Fixed non-SF_MACHINE characters being able to break monitors and spikes while in Dash mode.

!647 (merged) - Added the "Simple" play style, which automatically orientates the camera. It may prove easier for players using controllers.

!650 (merged) - Up to ten emblem hints may now be displayed!

!651 (merged) - Added an option to hide unlockable conditions which themselves must be unlocked.

!652 (merged) - Added sixteen angle sprite support.

!655 (merged) - Fixed Rollout Rocks not acting like other pushable objects.

!657 (merged) - Fixed positioning of papersprites with the Software renderer.

!658 (merged)/!659 (merged) - Fixed some issues with the orbital camera and player models.

!660 (merged)/!703 (merged) - Added dropshadows!

!662 (merged) - The FOV may now be changed while using the Software renderer. Go wild!

!663 (merged) - Fixed all kinds of wackiness regarding NiGHTS stars.

!664 (merged) - Escape now closes the console without opening the menu.

!668 (merged) - Added an option to always play a sound rather than the jingle when acquiring an extra life.

!671 (merged) - Fixed some issues with the homing attack.

!674 (merged) - Fixed the Egg Slimer's pogo's hitbox being intangible.

!676 (merged) - Adjusted Fang's pinch phase to be a bit fairer.

!678 (merged) - The game no longer closes if you load the same file twice with the -file parameter.

!680 (merged) - The Parameter value may now be used to specify a Star Post's number. The Object Special flag may also be used so that players respawn at the exact position of the Star Post. Useful if the Star Post is very close to a ledge.

!686 (merged) - (Lua) Removed adminplayer.

!688 (merged) - -bindaddr now works with the Master Server connection. So if you have multiple IP addresses, you can really host multiple servers!

!689 (merged) - Fixed the game crashing if your name was too long.

!691 (merged) - The chat window may now be as wide as the screen.

!696 (merged)/!728 (merged)/!760 (merged) - The credits have been updated.

!697 (merged) - Fixed sprites clipping into the first person view during quakes.

!697 (merged) - Fixed the player model rendering while in first person.

!700 (merged)/!719 (merged) - (Lua) Added R_PointInSubsectorOrNil.

!722 (merged) - Players may now rejoin to where they left off if they time out. (Use rejointimeout in console!)

!723 (merged) - Fixed a bug where keys that don't exist could be bound, crashing the game.

!729 (merged) - Fixed the Fire Shield being extinguished by lava.

!731 (merged) - Brak's flamethrower's flames no longer stop mid-air by hitting the player.

!732 (merged) - Fixed the camera jerking around while riding minecarts in netgames.

!736 (merged) - Fixed the title card not appearing while window is unfocused.

!743 (merged) - Fixed a memory leak while chat is on screen.

!746 (merged) - Optimized TNT explosions.

!747 (merged) - Fixed some issues with vertical momentum, like Knuckles not landing properly on rising platforms.

!748 (merged) - Adjusted Tails' flight to discourage mashing the jump button.

!752 (merged) - Fixed a bug where using an invalid name would prevent you from starting a server.

!772 (merged) - Players no longer slide off PolyObjects.

!778 (merged) - Fixed emerald tokens potentially being carried into the next level.

SRB2Internal!626 - Fixed a bug where loading game-modifying lumps such as Lua and SOC from a PK3 could sometimes not mark the game as modified.



Maps


General:


Many texture alignment issues and unusual object placements were resolved
Removed unused maps MAPF9 and MAPFA

The game now saves at the start of each level, rather than at the start of each zone


Greenflower Zone Act 2:


Moved one ring that was outside the map
Fixed a strange dark wall
Improved some fences so enemies can't hurt the player through them
Entrance to an emblem's room was made more visible


Techno Hill Zone Act 1:


Moved one ring that was stuck inside an FOF


Techno Hill Zone Act 2:


Fixed intangible glass in the starting room
Fixed 2 rings that were stuck inside an FOF
Bustable wall debris is now grey


Castle Eggman Zone Act 1:


Music fadeout no longer occurs at the end of the hallway in multiplayer
The collapsing bridge event no longer occurs in multiplayer
Some platforming was made easier at the shrine segment


Castle Eggman Zone Act 2:


Optimized level by removing waypoint polyobjects and some expendable details
Removed unused rooms


Arid Canyon Zone Act 1:


Added rings and cacti to the bustable floor route
Added warning signs near some pits and dangerous springs


Arid Canyon Zone Act 3:


The center of the capsule's button now activates the capsule properly


Red Volcano Zone Act 1:


Moved the final checkpoint so respawning players can't spawn over lava
Removed 8 rings that were eaten by lava


Black Core Zone Act 1:


Players are now forced out of reverse gravity in the final corridor


Black Core Zone Act 2:


In netgames, players can now exit the level simply by falling into the hole


Aerial Garden Zone:


Second emblem hint was rewritten to accurately reflect its position


Azure Temple Zone:


Route to an emblem's room was made easier to traverse
Upward current route was made easier to traverse


Orbital Hangar Zone:


Fixed area where some characters could get stuck


Sapphire Falls Zone:


Fixed missing colormap


Lime Forest Zone:


Fixed music looppoint
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.2.2 - February 22nd, 2020, 10:54pm UTC
Code



!690 (merged) - (Lua) Added view rolling!!!

!707 (merged) - Fixed + command line parameters to support multiple arguments to a command.

!709 (merged) - Tweaked exitmove a bunch! Exitmove is now on by default. Players can no longer lose lives after finishing. Added visual indicators for players who have finished. Tails may now pick up finished players.

!716 (merged) - Removed trailing zeroes from floating point cvars.

!721 (merged) - Added emblem hint pages for levels with more than ten hints.

!742 (merged) - Added flashpals to GIFs.

!765 (merged) - Added ShowTitlecardFor to level headers, to precisely adjust when the titlecard will be shown.

!767 (merged) - Models may now be given to skins with the same names as sprites in models.dat.

!770 (merged) - (Lua) Added a bunch of string drawing options.

!771 (merged) - (Lua) Added stoppedclock.

!773 (merged) - (Lua) Sprites may now be rotated via getSpritePatch and getSprite2Patch.

!784 (merged) - Overtime works again.

!787 (merged) - Added some new skin colors! Copper, Apple, Bronze, Ketchup, Bluebell and Raspberry.

!787 (merged) - Save cards will now use a character's preferred opposite color, if set.

!787 (merged) - (Lua) Added R_GetColorByName and R_GetNameByColor.

!792 (merged) - (Lua) Added pw_justlaunched to tell when a player is launched by slopes.

!795 (merged) - Fixed OpenGL sometimes displaying the wrong skin color after a map change.

!799 (merged) - Fixed a bug where looking at players would not display their name, if a Lua hook was not registered.

!800 (merged) - PNG sprites may now be rotated.

!802 (merged) - Fixed a bug with -warp that would report a corrupted gamedata if SOC set a custom one.



Resources


Fixed some broken animated textures.
Upgraded the Rollout Rock to sixteen angles.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.2.3 - May 10th, 2020, 10:09pm UTC
Code


Additions


Game



!797 (merged) - The console can now be used during menus

!820 (merged) - The emblem hints and radar can now be used in Record Attack

!865 (merged) - Continues can now be used infinitely in the vanilla game while using a save file; collecting tokens after obtaining all the emeralds rewards extra lives instead

!927 (merged) - The showfps variable is now saved to config.cfg and has an additional compact option

!924 (merged) - Added new laser effects for the Greenflower Zone 3 boss



Modding



!782 (merged) - Added SF_NONIGHTSSUPER for characters who have super forms but shouldn't flash their supercolor in NiGHTS mode

!762 (merged) - MUSICDEF lumps can now set looppoints with LOOPMS

!805 (merged) - Updated the color ramps for Super Sonic's flashing colors (SKINCOLOR_SUPERGOLD1-SKINCOLOR_SUPERGOLD5)

!865 (merged) - Finite continues is now a togglable feature for addon gamedata

!917 (merged) - Added additional level header options SPECIALSTAGETIME, SPECIALSTAGESPHERES, and GRAVITY

!877 (merged) - Linedef type 461 can now change the angle of objects it spawns

!916 (merged) - Added linedef type 464: Trigger Egg Capsule

!679 (merged) - Added the SOC action A_Dye and linedef types 334 - 336, for coloring and colorizing players and other objects, as well as detecting when they are colored

!831 (merged) - Players can now hurt each other in any non-GTR_FRIENDLY gametype

!804 (merged) - (Lua) Added the BotRespawn hook

!803 (merged) - (Lua) The FollowMobj can now be hooked onto specific mobj types

!727 (merged) - (Lua) Added support for the Lua I/O library

!756 (merged) - (Lua) Spectating player mobjs can now be accessed via player.realmo


!817 (merged) - (Lua) Exposed new music functions: P_PlayJingle, P_PlayJingleMusic, S_GetMusicLength, S_GetMusicPosition, S_SetMusicPosition



Fixes



!813 (merged) - Fixed exitmove flags spawning in Single Player

!815 (merged) - Spectators no longer get chosen as the IT player in Tag/Hide & Seek

!823 (merged) - Fixed Amy's love hearts crashing the game in Frozen Hillside Zone

!822 (merged) - Fixed missing chat colors for the skincolors added in v2.2.2

!839 (merged) - Fixed special stages crashing upon taking damage

!827 (merged) - Fixed Arid Canyon Zone's fences not displaying properly in OpenGL

!837 (merged) - Fixed NiGHTS Attack crash after switching renderers

!806 (merged) - Fixed rejoining a server being impossible if the server is full

!838 (merged) - Fixed division-by-0 crash from 100% gamepad deadzones, and lack of input from 0% deadzones

!841 (merged) - Fixed the delete guest ghost confirmation returning to the wrong menu, and declining the confirmation now actually keeps the ghost

!836 (merged) - Fixed buggles not chasing the player, and thrown rings not homing in on players with Attraction Shields

!866 (merged) - Fixed disconnected player bodies getting erroneously kicked for having high ping

!840 (merged) - Fixed objects in sectors with a light level of 256 becoming black in OpenGL

!861 (merged) - Added horizon lines to OpenGL

!818 (merged) - Fixed models displaying incorrectly with rollangle in reverse gravity

!887 (merged) - Fixed emerald hunt's emerald spawns; emeralds can now also float with the ambush flag and spawn in reverse gravity with the flip flag

!890 (merged) - Fixed desync issues with players joining netgames while platforms were crumbling

!891 (merged) - The mouse is no longer grabbed during intermission or cutscenes while alwaysgrabmouse is off

!814 (merged) - (Lua) Fixed incorrect newdisplayplayer value for a forced ViewpointSwitch



Resources


Many maps received a generous number of bugfixes and texture offset tweaks
Lance-a-bot's breastplate was added to its attack sprites
Added a unique default DSONEUP sound for the 1upsound toggle
The character select screen's font has been updated with a shading style more consistent for contrasting skincolor combinations
Updated the character select artwork for Sonic & Tails
Tails and Knuckles received new sprites for animations where previously mirroring sprites resulted in inconsistent limb positioning
Fang and Amy received minor sprite updates for detail consistency
Many updated MIDI tracks have been added to patch_music.pk3, which is now used by the game
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.2.4 - May 12th, 2020, 1:37am UTC
Code



!931 (merged) - Fixed issue that prevented players using simple controls from completing the tutorial

!934 (merged) - Fixed title cards showing up incorrectly in splitscreen

!930 (merged) - Fixed potential crash during startup if certain HUD elements were translucent

!936 (merged) - Fixed crash that could occur if ridden rollout rocks were suddenly removed

!932 (merged) - (Lua) Fixed A_Dye and the BotRespawn hook being inaccessible



Resources


 Removed the wall 2.2.3 added in Arid Canyon 2 so that Amy can pass through again, and added an alternative route for spinning characters to escape the room
 Added special stage MIDIs to patch_music.pk3
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.2.5 - July 10th, 2020, 3:44pm UTC
Buffed Knuckles. (!1030 (merged))


You can now become Super Knuckles with the 7 Chaos Emeralds!


Cling to a wall or hit the ground after gliding to create an impactful earthquake, damaging nearby enemies.
Now you can climb even faster!
His jumpheight is still restricted, maintaining the integrity of Knuckles pathsplits. Can be applied to other characters via new skin flag SF_NOSUPERJUMPBOOST.
Please don't ask us about Super Tails et al; changes like those require more thought and development time to do properly.


His crouch landing is now a few tics shorter, cutting the player's momentum less.
He can now swim, with slightly different gliding controls and sprites under the surface of the water!
Glide behaviour 2D mode is now more accurate to his appearance in official 2D titles, which has the benefit of being way nicer to control.



Introducing "Marathon Run" - a new section on the 1 PLAYER menu for full-campaign speedruns. (!941 (merged), !1013 (merged))


An unambigious timing bar on the bottom with both realtime and in-game timer options, with only the best in antisplice technology.
Unlocked alongside Record Attack for now, to avoid gamedata incompatibility. This will likely change in a future major version.
"Live event backups", which can be used to recover your run from the last loaded level in the event of a crash (or abysmal Black Eggman RNG). Probably not legal for world record attempts, but essential for livestreamed events like GDQ and its ilk.
Comes equipped with support for spmarathon_start MainCfg block parameter and marathonnext map header parameter, allowing for fine-tuned level flow.
The global integer bitflag sequence marathonmode is available to Lua to read.


The OpenGL renderer has received an overhaul to support shaders, among numerous other improvements. This improves the performance significantly, and although there isn't a lot of documentation yet capability exists for writing your own vertex and fragment shaders and including these with add-ons. If your graphics card doesn't have the necessary feature support, the old terrible renderer (minus fog) exists as a fallback. (!724 (merged), !1005 (merged), !1008 (merged))
You can now create custom skincolors with SOC and Lua; see the linked merge request for more in-depth documentation. (!960 (merged), !971 (merged))
The game will now save as gameplay ends after a level, rather than as the next level (or ending cutscene/credits) loads. This means your progress up to the next level will now be saved even if you quit during a Special Stage, although you will still miss out on the opportunity for an Emerald. (!941 (merged), !1016 (merged))
Lua scripting errors will now show a full "stack traceback" - a full list of what functions called which before the script stopped running. Needless to say, this is extraordinarily helpful for coders of all skill levels. (!974 (merged))
The Chaos Emeralds' sprites have been updated with pretty hue-shifting, to reflect their magical nature.
Updated music for the tracks originally sourced from the cancelled "Mystic Realm" modification.
Added a Character Select option to NiGHTS mode. (!862 (merged), !1025 (merged))
Drop shadows will now flip with gravity, making them more useful in Egg Rock Zone. (!973 (merged))
Make recorded gif files have variable frame delay, so that lag won't cause playback to unwittingly speed up. Can be toggled with console variable gif_dynamicdelay if you NEED to upload to gfycat or any other place that doesn't support this feature, though. (!1023 (merged))
Extend the "player input buffer" in netplay. This should mean a laggy player normally doesn't freeze the game for everyone else, and that the game no longer pauses when someone joins the server. (!835 (merged), !950 (merged), !951 (merged))
In-game file transfers are now more efficient for users with relatively high latency (100~150ms), and attempt to recover if you haven't closed the game or attempted to download a new file since the previous download stopped. (!976 (merged))
The host can now see the list of ongoing file transfers by using the downloads command.
Added rendering stats for debugging purposes, which can be toggled via the renderstats console variable. (!914 (merged))
Act numbers greater than 19 can now be used in level headers, up to a maximum of 99. (!905 (merged))
Added new scroller linedef types 507 and 508, which scroll the back side textures of their linedef based on either their front or back side texture offsets. (!955 (merged))
Linedef types 502 to 504 can now scroll the back side textures of tagged linedefs by applying the Peg Midtexture (effect 3) flag, and use texture offsets instead of linedef length/direction by checking the No Midtexture Skew (Effect 2) flag. Multiple scrollers can be applied to the same linedef as long as they operate on different sides. (!955 (merged))
Allow transparent parts in translucent FOF and polyobject planes. (!978 (merged))
Improved the performance of systems that use waypoints by building a list at level load. CEZ2's performance should see a boost from this. (!938 (merged), !975 (merged))
Added a chomping sound to the Jet Jaw's dash attack, to prevent it from unfairly sneaking up on a player who's otherwise paying attention to the game. (!1018 (merged))
Made polyobject movement smoother and properly net-synchronised, which should make the platforms in CEZ2 behave nicer. (!947 (merged), !979 (merged))
Added new colorised debris for the CEZ3 buttons. (!1012 (merged))
Reworked how Dust Devils carry the player; they can now be reliably detected with Lua via pw_carry. (!886 (merged))
dofile(pk3-internal directory string) is now available to Lua. This is most useful to control the order in which scripts are loaded in .pk3s, such as with an init.lua script at the pk3's root calling various scripts within the Lua folder. (!969 (merged))
Added P_SpawnSkidDust(player_t, fixed radius, boolean playsound), P_Earthquake(mobj_t inflictor, mobj_t source, fixed radius), S_StopSoundByID(mobj_t, sfxenum_t) and G_BuildMapTitle(mapnum) to Lua. (!1030 (merged), !925 (merged), !694 (merged))
Add an optional boolean to P_RadiusAttack to control the sight check, defaulting to true. (!1030 (merged))
The Lua function G_BuildMapName(mapnum) now works outside of levels (for example, in intermissions). (!694 (merged))
isserver and isdedicatedserver global variables are now available to Lua scripts. These are clientside, and should not be used in gamelogic behaviour. (!1022 (merged))
Added a way to get a unique ID for any given mapthing_t by using the # operator in Lua. (!957 (merged))
Added a GameQuit Lua hook; its function signature takes no parameters. (!847 (merged))
Added the mirrored mobj_t property, which mirrors an object's sprites relative to its A1-A5 axis. (!987 (merged))
Added FF_HORIZONTALFLIP frame flag, which flips an object's sprites relative to the camera. (!987 (merged))
Added skin flag SF_NOSUPERSPRITES, which prevents the game from attempting to use Super sprites for the player while applied. (!1000 (merged))
Added new player power timer pw_ignorelatch, which prevents the player from grabbing onto new CR_GENERIC objects while it is nonzero. If bit 16 is set, will prevent the player from interacting with all non-NiGHTS carrying objects while nonzero. (!1006 (merged))
The "Legacy" control style has been renamed to "Strafe" to make it more obvious that it won't behave identically to earlier versions of SRB2. (!1029 (merged))
Various minor map adjustments and fixes, too numerous and too minor to document in full.
Fixed some Software-only crashes caused by trying to draw papersprites that were far offscreen. (!954 (merged))
Fixed a dedicated server crash that happened when newly joined players' IP addresses couldn't be retrieved. (!963 (merged))
Fixed a crash when attempting to call A_SplitShot with no target. (!956 (merged))
Fixed an issue where GME music tracks could be started before they were properly loaded, causing the occasional crash. (!1001 (merged))
Fixed an OpenGL-only memory leak on the Character Select menu. (!946 (merged))
Fixed a longstanding netplay bug where players simply respawning could desynchronise the game. (!977 (merged))
Fixed the Hide and Seek gametype being broken from 2.2.1 onwards. (!816 (merged))
Fixed a bevy of minor issues with custom gametypes. (!816 (merged))
Fixed an issue where if you joined a netgame from a launcher or the command line, and your autoexec file contained server/admin-only console variables, you could occasionally be kicked. (!1040 (merged))
Fixed an issue in ACZ3 where the boss could repeatedly jump into a wall at the start of pinch phase, softlocking the game until the level is reset. (!1015 (merged))
Fixed macOS builds not being able to be launched through Steam from 2.2.1 onwards. (!996 (merged))
Fixed an issue where the player's momentum would be cut if you landed while rolling. (!972 (merged))
Super Sonic no longer rolls when floating into the ground. (!999 (merged))
Fixes players with zeroed vertical momentum not properly touching the ground when stepping up, eating a jump. (!999 (merged))
Fixes certain character animations being repeatedly reset while on a rising floor. (!999 (merged))
Fixes CA_BOUNCE characters taking damage and resetting their score chain when bouncing on a non-liquid rising floor. (!999 (merged))
Players using skins with SF_DASHMODE will only have their normalspeed and jumpfactor reset to default when leaving dashmode or respawning, instead of every single tic. (!909 (merged))
Fixed an issue where skins with SF_DASHMODE and followmobjs would have their followmobj, and ONLY their followmobj, gain a ghost trail in the dashmode state. This behaviour is now specific to Metal Sonic's followmobj. (!909 (merged))
Fixed an issue where superform sparks were not fullbright. (!1030 (merged))
The mouse will no longer be hogged by the game in intermission, continue, or cutscene gamestates. (!891 (merged))
Fixed crumbling, bobbing, floating FOFs that fell too fast becoming tired of this world, these people, and of being caught in the tangle of their lives. (!961 (merged))
Fixed an issue where if the titlemap had LF_SAVEGAME, it could overwrite your singleplayer saves. (!1016 (merged))
Fixed an issue where Linedef Type 422 did not set the vertical aiming angle properly for titlemaps. (!1014 (merged))
Fixed an issue where the Dragonbomber badnik's desired z coordinate is calculated incorrectly. (!1004 (merged))
Fixed an issue with players sticking to the missiles from the currently unused pre-2.1 version of the Black Eggman fight. (!1006 (merged))
Fixed a certified braj moment where A_FlickyCenter and A_SignSpin were not usable in SOC and Lua. (!946 (merged), !1039 (merged))
Fixed a certified braj moment where the internals of sidedefs were malformed to Lua, preventing proper access to some of its data. (!1017 (merged))
Fixed an issue with the Software renderer where no sprite pixels could be drawn to the furthest right column of the screen. (!944 (merged))
Sprites should now be rendered in Software mode more consistently with changed FOV settings. (!954 (merged))
Fixed an issue where switching renderers on platforms other than Windows would reset the window icon. (!898 (merged))
Fixed an issue where OpenGL gifs only recorded the first frame when set to unoptimised mode. (!928 (merged))
Fixed an OpenGL-only issue where 3D models that don't have textures of their own attempted to check for textures every frame, causing performance loss. (!1009 (merged))
Removed the OpenGL renderer's attempts to recreate various "Software tricks" that were used in the early days of Doom mapping, but occasionally got in the way of the intended level appearance for modern SRB2 stages. (!1036 (merged))
Cheese. (!1028 (merged))
The default value of apng_speed cvar was changed from 1/2x to 1x. (!1044 (merged))
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.2.6 - July 11th, 2020, 2:50am UTC
Fixed a critical issue where Custom Exits (for example, the no-intermission ending to every act in Black Core Zone) would cause the game to softlock when playing on a save file, or with a live event backup. (!1047 (merged))
Fixed an issue where 3D models that used sprites as their textures would have these textures applied offset significantly from their appearance in 2.2.4 and earlier. (!1049 (merged))
Fixed live event backups being created in some edge cases. (!1048 (merged))
Introduce a time penalty for loading live event backups for RTA runs, as a temporary fix for the fact that doing so allowed you to shed some already-accumulated time. This will be handled with more grace in a future patch, but this solution will do for now to avoid holding back critical bugfixes. (!1048 (merged))
Make a series of minor adjustments to Marathon Run on the request of the speedrunning community.


Add a small amount of extra info (skin, RTA vs in-game time) to the Evaluation screen for Marathon Run.
Changed the default mode to use the in-game timing system instead of RTA. (!1048 (merged))


Fixed some slightly misplaced water FOF heights across the campaign, abating some rendering issues.
Fixed an issue where y-shearing in OpenGL was painfully incorrect in reverse gravity with flipped camera. (!1051 (merged))
Fixed lighting on Amy's rolling sprites.
Updated Knuckles's side swimming sprites for better clarity.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.2.7 RC1 - September 1st, 2020, 11:33pm UTC
Code



https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1046 - Bubble shield - stronger bounce, keep some horizontal momentum.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1010 - No more "Variables have the same netid" errors.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1031 - OpenGL MF2_LINKDRAW support. This means Tails' tails don't poke out of the shields anymore!

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1061 - 5 seconds are no longer added to the current run's time in the Live Event Backup category - Realtime.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1059, https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/884 - Added P_RailThinker, P_XYMovement, P_RingXYMovement, P_SceneryXYMovement, P_ZMovement, P_RingZMovement, P_SceneryZMovement, P_PlayerZMovement and P_MovePlayer to Lua.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1060 - Tweaked custom color support.


Added R_GetSuperColorByName to Lua.
Fixed an issue setting accessible with Lua.
Fixed a crash from setting invcolor to an invalid value.

R_GetColorByName will return SKINCOLOR_NONE instead of SKINCOLOR_GREEN if the color does not exist.



https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1065 - (Lua) CONS_Printf and mo.valid may now be used outside of levels.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1064 - (Lua) freeslot returns the number of the allocated mobj/state/sprite/etc.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1066 - Fixed a memory leak with custom skincolors, especially animated ones.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1076 - (Lua) Fixed muspostbossname sometimes returning garbage.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1078 - Built-in skincolors may now be changed.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1082 - Fixed a crash if you closed the game immediately after starting to record a replay.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1081 - Fixed Super Sonic having Metal Sonic's float.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1080 - Fixed some issues with fullbright on Super characters in NiGHTS stages.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1077 - Added the netticbuffer cvar. This stores some inputs in a buffer in case the network is slow, exchanging netcode induced lag for input delay.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1084 - Fixed fog FOFs sometimes being partially invisible with shaders enabled.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1085 - Fixed light level going out of range sometimes with shaders enabled.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1086 - Fixed polyobject plane distortion in OpenGL.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/693 - Added G_FindMap and G_FindMapByNameOrCode to Lua.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/939 - Added Music Preference to Sound Options, to prefer MIDI or digital music.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1019 - Remove wide version of the fallback intermission card. Now the normal one stretches to fit the screen.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1091 - Fixed Credits being unskippable from the Extras menu.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1089 - Fixed a rendering issue with huge sectors in OpenGL.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1094 - Fixed inconsistent flat alignment in OpenGL.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1099 - Fixed Metal Sonic's jet fume being visible in first-person.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1073 - (OpenGL) Model Lighting now works when shaders are enabled.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1093 - (Lua) The player argument for COM_BufInsertText is now optional, consoleplayer will be used if omitted.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1098 - Old Analog controls are functional again.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1092 - Word delete/backspace works in console. (Word movement worked before.)

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/982 - (Lua) BT_SPIN is now preferred over BT_USE.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1105 - Fixed pasting text sometimes crashing the game.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1115 - Added a menu option to show joiner's IP addresses.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/940 - Now using new Master Server technology, promising more uptime and smoother menus.

https://git.magicalgirl.moe/STJr/SRB2/merge_requests/1132 - Added a new "Sonic Team Junior Presents" screen.



Resources


Added a new Black Eggman sprite render.
Minor changes in Green Flower Zone 3, Techno Hill Zone 2 and Arid Canyon Zone 1.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.2.7 RC2 - September 26th, 2020, 12:33am UTC
Code



!1046 (merged) - Bubble shield - stronger bounce, keep some horizontal momentum.

!1010 (merged) - No more "Variables have the same netid" errors.

!1031 (merged) - OpenGL MF2_LINKDRAW support. This means Tails' tails don't poke out of the shields anymore!

!1061 (merged) - 5 seconds are no longer added to the current run's time in the Live Event Backup category - Realtime.

!1059 (merged), !884 (merged) - Added P_RailThinker, P_XYMovement, P_RingXYMovement, P_SceneryXYMovement, P_ZMovement, P_RingZMovement, P_SceneryZMovement, P_PlayerZMovement and P_MovePlayer to Lua.

!1060 (merged) - Tweaked custom color support.


Added R_GetSuperColorByName to Lua.
Fixed an issue setting accessible with Lua.
Fixed a crash from setting invcolor to an invalid value.

R_GetColorByName will return SKINCOLOR_NONE instead of SKINCOLOR_GREEN if the color does not exist.



!1065 (merged) - (Lua) CONS_Printf and mo.valid may now be used outside of levels.

!1064 (merged) - (Lua) freeslot returns the number of the allocated mobj/state/sprite/etc.

!1066 (merged) - Fixed a memory leak with custom skincolors, especially animated ones.

!1076 (merged) - (Lua) Fixed muspostbossname sometimes returning garbage.

!1078 (merged) - Built-in skincolors may now be changed.

!1082 (merged) - Fixed a crash if you closed the game immediately after starting to record a replay.

!1081 (merged) - Fixed Super Sonic having Metal Sonic's float.

!1080 (merged) - Fixed some issues with fullbright on Super characters in NiGHTS stages.

!1077 (merged) - Added the netticbuffer cvar. This stores some inputs in a buffer in case the network is slow, exchanging netcode induced lag for input delay.

!1084 (merged) - Fixed fog FOFs sometimes being partially invisible with shaders enabled.

!1085 (merged) - Fixed light level going out of range sometimes with shaders enabled.

!1086 (merged) - Fixed polyobject plane distortion in OpenGL.

!693 (merged) - Added G_FindMap and G_FindMapByNameOrCode to Lua.

!939 (merged) - Added Music Preference to Sound Options, to prefer MIDI or digital music.

!1019 (merged) - Remove wide version of the fallback intermission card. Now the normal one stretches to fit the screen.

!1091 (merged) - Fixed Credits being unskippable from the Extras menu.

!1089 (merged) - Fixed a rendering issue with huge sectors in OpenGL.

!1094 (merged) - Fixed inconsistent flat alignment in OpenGL.

!1099 (merged) - Fixed Metal Sonic's jet fume being visible in first-person.

!1073 (merged) - (OpenGL) Model Lighting now works when shaders are enabled.

!1093 (merged) - (Lua) The player argument for COM_BufInsertText is now optional, consoleplayer will be used if omitted.

!1098 (merged) - Old Analog controls are functional again.

!1092 (merged) - Word delete/backspace works in console. (Word movement worked before.)

!982 (merged) - (Lua) BT_SPIN is now preferred over BT_USE.

!1105 (merged) - Fixed pasting text sometimes crashing the game.

!1115 (merged) - Added a menu option to show joiner's IP addresses.

!940 (merged) - Now using new Master Server technology, promising more uptime and smoother menus.

!1132 (merged) - Added a new "Sonic Team Junior Presents" screen.

!1143 (merged) - Optimized loading of PNG graphics, greatly reducing the load time of levels that happen to use PNGs.

!1142 (merged) - (Lua) Passing a number with '%e' %E' '%f' '%g' '%G' specifier to string.format returns a number that is scaled by FRACUNIT


!1139 (merged) - Objectplace improvement and fixes: movement speeds are scaled with player scale, spawned objects are scaled with player scale, command accepts argument for thing num to set, analog control schemes can now control objectplace using the same controls as standard schemes

!1114 (merged) - Fixed cv_glshearing 2 in first person

!1124 (merged) - Fixed a bug where adding the same mod multiple times counted towards the mod limit

!1125 (merged) - tic and UI times is now shown in render stats

!1127 (merged) - Fixed players not properly decolorizing via linedef action

!1134 (merged) - Fixed bonus items sometimes overriding apples in Snake minigame

!1145 (merged) - (Lua) "divide by zero" or "modulo by zero" errors will now show the file and line of where it occurred.

!1147 (merged) - Fixed save select not displaying changes made to the bot's skin

!1151 (merged) - Fixed P_SupermanLook4Players assigning spectators as targets

!1152 (merged) - Fixed dead players being able to trigger sector effects upon respawning.

!1153 (merged) - Reworded messages about loaded addons so they are less confusing.

!1155 (merged) - Players can no longer change their name more than five times per minute 

!1156 (merged) - Volume is applied to sounds that have an origin



Resources


Added a new Black Eggman sprite render.
Minor bugfixes to Greenflower Zone 1, Greenflower Zone 2, Greenflower Zone 3, Techno Hill Zone 1, Techno Hill Zone 2, Castle Eggman Zone Act 2, Arid Canyon Zone 1, Egg Rock Zone Act 1 and Lost Palace Zone
Jeck Jims' 3D models is now included
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.2.7 - September 30th, 2020, 11:03pm UTC
!1046 (merged) - Bubble shield - stronger bounce, keep some horizontal momentum.

!1010 (merged) - No more "Variables have the same netid" errors.

!1031 (merged) - OpenGL MF2_LINKDRAW support. This means Tails' tails don't poke out of the shields anymore!

!1061 (merged) - 5 seconds are no longer added to the current run's time in the Live Event Backup category - Realtime.

!1059 (merged), !884 (merged) - Added P_RailThinker, P_XYMovement, P_RingXYMovement, P_SceneryXYMovement, P_ZMovement, P_RingZMovement, P_SceneryZMovement, P_PlayerZMovement and P_MovePlayer to Lua.

!1060 (merged) - Tweaked custom color support.


Added R_GetSuperColorByName to Lua.
Fixed an issue setting accessible with Lua.
Fixed a crash from setting invcolor to an invalid value.

R_GetColorByName will return SKINCOLOR_NONE instead of SKINCOLOR_GREEN if the color does not exist.



!1065 (merged) - (Lua) CONS_Printf and mo.valid may now be used outside of levels.

!1064 (merged) - (Lua) freeslot returns the number of the allocated mobj/state/sprite/etc.

!1066 (merged) - Fixed a memory leak with custom skincolors, especially animated ones.

!1076 (merged) - (Lua) Fixed muspostbossname sometimes returning garbage.

!1078 (merged) - Built-in skincolors may now be changed.

!1082 (merged) - Fixed a crash if you closed the game immediately after starting to record a replay.

!1081 (merged) - Fixed Super Sonic having Metal Sonic's float.

!1080 (merged) - Fixed some issues with fullbright on Super characters in NiGHTS stages.

!1077 (merged) - Added the netticbuffer cvar. This stores some inputs in a buffer in case the network is slow, exchanging netcode induced lag for input delay.

!1084 (merged) - Fixed fog FOFs sometimes being partially invisible with shaders enabled.

!1085 (merged) - Fixed light level going out of range sometimes with shaders enabled.

!1086 (merged) - Fixed polyobject plane distortion in OpenGL.

!693 (merged) - Added G_FindMap and G_FindMapByNameOrCode to Lua.

!939 (merged) - Added Music Preference to Sound Options, to prefer MIDI or digital music.

!1019 (merged) - Remove wide version of the fallback intermission card. Now the normal one stretches to fit the screen.

!1091 (merged) - Fixed Credits being unskippable from the Extras menu.

!1089 (merged) - Fixed a rendering issue with huge sectors in OpenGL.

!1094 (merged) - Fixed inconsistent flat alignment in OpenGL.

!1099 (merged) - Fixed Metal Sonic's jet fume being visible in first-person.

!1073 (merged) - (OpenGL) Model Lighting now works when shaders are enabled.

!1093 (merged) - (Lua) The player argument for COM_BufInsertText is now optional, consoleplayer will be used if omitted.

!1098 (merged) - Old Analog controls are functional again.

!1092 (merged) - Word delete/backspace works in console. (Word movement worked before.)

!982 (merged) - (Lua) BT_SPIN is now preferred over BT_USE.

!1105 (merged) - Fixed pasting text sometimes crashing the game.

!1115 (merged) - Added a menu option to show joiner's IP addresses.

!940 (merged) - Now using new Master Server technology, promising more uptime and smoother menus.

!1132 (merged) - Added a new "Sonic Team Junior Presents" screen.

!1143 (merged) - Optimized loading of PNG graphics, greatly reducing the load time of levels that happen to use PNGs.

!1142 (merged) - (Lua) Passing a number with '%e' %E' '%f' '%g' '%G' specifier to string.format returns a number that is scaled by FRACUNIT


!1139 (merged) - Objectplace improvement and fixes: movement speeds are scaled with player scale, spawned objects are scaled with player scale, command accepts argument for thing num to set, analog control schemes can now control objectplace using the same controls as standard schemes

!1114 (merged) - Fixed cv_glshearing 2 in first person

!1124 (merged) - Fixed a bug where adding the same mod multiple times counted towards the mod limit

!1125 (merged) - tic and UI times is now shown in render stats

!1127 (merged) - Fixed players not properly decolorizing via linedef action

!1134 (merged) - Fixed bonus items sometimes overriding apples in Snake minigame

!1145 (merged) - (Lua) "divide by zero" or "modulo by zero" errors will now show the file and line of where it occurred.

!1147 (merged) - Fixed save select not displaying changes made to the bot's skin

!1151 (merged) - Fixed P_SupermanLook4Players assigning spectators as targets

!1152 (merged) - Fixed dead players being able to trigger sector effects upon respawning.

!1153 (merged) - Reworded messages about loaded addons so they are less confusing.

!1155 (merged) - Players can no longer change their name more than five times per minute 

!1156 (merged) - Volume is applied to sounds that have an origin

!1068 (merged) - Fixed sprites as model textures



Resources


Added a new Black Eggman sprite render.
3D models are now included with the game, made by Jeck Jims.
Minor bugfixes to Greenflower Zone 1, Greenflower Zone 2, Greenflower Zone 3, Techno Hill Zone 1, Techno Hill Zone 2, Castle Eggman Zone Act 2, Arid Canyon Zone 1, Egg Rock Zone Act 1 and Lost Palace Zone
Added Marathon Run's menu music (SPEC8) to MUSICDEF.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.2.8 - October 4th, 2020, 11:49pm UTC
Code



!1166 (merged) - Fixed a bug where loading lua scripts that added netvars via the -file parameter would lead to desyncs. Dedicated servers were most directly affected due to the common usage of -file.

!1169 (merged) - Removed "The OpenGL renderer is incomplete" notice, and fixed changing the renderer from console not updating the menu option.

!1171 (merged) - Fixed PNG graphics being broken in OpenGL.

!1112 (merged) - Fixed Shift key not working in Windows detached console.

!1154 (merged) - Fixed Canarivore gas teleporting up ledges.



Resources


Minor fixes in Techno Hill 1 (#311 (closed)), Techno Hill 2 (#312 (closed), #314 (closed)) and Dream Hill.






2.2.9 Prerelease 1 - February 15th, 2021, 2:10am
Bugfixes
 
 
Fixed levels being unlocked in Record Attack just from watching it on the titlescreen. (!1177)
Fixed Special Stages being shown in the Co-op category of the level select, if you were playing another gametype. (!1180)
Fixed ordinary players being able to skip credits in netgames and desync. (!1182)
Fixed GIF recording crashing if Local Color Table was disabled. (!1196)
Fixed inconsistent fade when holding Pause to retry in Record Attack. (!1193)
Fixed a crash with loading ghosts in Record Attack. (!1203)
Increased accuracy of momentum values in replays, which should reduce some desyncs, such as on slopes and moving platforms. (!1157)
Increased accuracy of player height changes in replays. This should also reduce desyncing. (!1241)
(Lua) Fixed COM_BufInsertText sometimes being delayed by a previous wait command. (!1207)
The selected save file is always drawn over the others. (!1228)
Ghosts copy sprite rotation. (!1211)
 
objectplace -silent works again. (!1214)
Fixed a crash with UDMF maps. (!1221)
Fixed inconsistent speeds when sliding across walls. (!1232)
Fixed a crash that would happen on dedicated servers if the last player left during a Special Stage. (!1240)
(Lua) Let MobjSpawn hooks modify object scale for mapthings. (This also fixes the size of the arrows above buttons in Castle Eggman 3.) (!1251)
Fixed FOF planes sometimes being drawn over sprites when they should be behind. (!1235)
Fixed reloadbans and clearbans. (!1215)
Fixed a lot of things not resetting when restarting Marathon Mode in the first level. (!1252)
Fixed a number of spin related bugs, especially with regards to no spin characters. (!1256)
(Lua) Fixed bitwise NOT causing a crash if used on non numeric values. (!1262)
Fixed no spin getting crushed when rolling into tight spaces. (!1267)
Mario 1-up sound always plays in Mario mode. (!1272)
Fixed TC_DASHMODE being inaccessible to v.getColormap. (!1273)
Let non player objects apply CR_PLAYER. (!1274)
Fixed forced super transformation lowering ring count to 50. (!1278)
Fixed a division by zero by Metal Sonic (fight ver.) (!1283)
Fixed MF_FIRE objects being allergic to lava. (!1287)
Fixed Brak's electric barrier's size being too big. (!1294)
Fixed minecart indifferent saloon doors being infinitely tall. (!1296)
Fixed cropped patch drawing in OpenGL. (!1297)
(Lua) Fixed the MapChange hook not firing for demos. (!1319)
Made player.speed more precise. (!1309)
Fixed SPC music not looping in newer versions of libgme. (!1302)
Fixed animated skin colors in OpenGL I guess. (!1301)
Fixed firey spindash dust when using an Elemental Shield not being fullbright. (!1317)
Fixed a crash when converting doom patches. (!1324)
Fixed the Amy NPC spawning in mario mode if the player is also Amy. (!1330)
(Lua) Fixed trying to access an invalid field on skincolors returning the field name instead of nil. (!1351)
Fixed an epic division by zero. (!1374)
 
 
 
Optimizations
 
 
Optimized FOFs by not rendering anything obscured by the top or bottom. (!1184)
Optimized FOF rendering in scenes with a lot of them. (!1199)
Optimized plane rendering of non power of two textures. (!1201)
Optimized Lua hooks. (!1209)
The game is now compiled with SSE3 compiler optimizations. (!1213)
Optimized overriden Lua actions (!1254)
 
 
 
Lua Features
 
 
Sectors may now be used as an origin for sound related functions. (!1144)
Added MODVERSION. (!1158)
Added the PlayerCmd hook from Kart. This hook allows you modify the ticcmd locally, before it is sent to the server. (!1072)
Added v.getStringColormap to hud hooks. (!1111)
Added P_CeilingzAtPos. (!1164)
Added CV_Set, CV_StealthSet and CV_AddValue to set cvars directly from Lua. (!1205)
Added polyobject support. (!1140)
Added gamestate. (!1229)
Added registerMetatable and userdataMetatable. More details on the merge request: (!1224)
Added a bunch of music related functions. (!1230)
Added a bunch of global variables: emeralds, token, gravity, stoppedclock, displayplayer, mapmusname, mapmusflags, skincolor_redteam, skincolor_blueteam, skincolor_redring and skincolor_bluering. (!1233)
Added shorthand aliases for various fixed-point math functions. (!1247)
Added selectheading to mapheader_t. (!1268)
Added player.skin and player.availabilities. (!1269)
 
player.lastlinehit and lastsidehit are now usable outside of climbing on walls, where they will represent the last wall collided with. (!1271)
 
GameQuit hooks are now passed a boolean which tells if the hook is being called before the program closes. (!1276)
 
skin.sprites (!1238)
Added multitag library, which allows reading and manipulation of tags on mapthings, lines and sectors; also added tag iterator functions.(!1292)
 
 
 
Miscellaneous
 
 
Attraction Shield's homing attack may now be chained. (!1109)
Aliases can be autocompleted in the console. (!1113)
Added a -splitscreen command line parameter. (!1175)
Amy is no longer Toad. (!1183)
The addfile command now supports adding multiple files. (!1176)
A bunch of netvars are now saved to the config. Only the server will save a netvar's current value. Clients will save the value prior to joining the server. (!1179)
The player will now smoothly slide across a sloped ceiling. (!1192)
Replaced renderstats with perfstats. This shows timings for rendering, game logic and Lua ThinkFrame. (!1186)
Added SF_CANBUSTWALLS. Characters require this skin flag in order to break bustable walls like Knuckles. Therefore the bustable behavior is no longer tied to CA_GLIDEANDCLIMB. (!1163)
Updated the credits. (!1200)
Added a dash state for Tails overlay. (!1210)
Let more graphics lumps be replaced clientside. (!1189)
Added a gr_allowclientshaders netvar which allows the server to disable clientside custom shaders. (!1181)
UDMF multitagging support. (!1097)
Added support for sprite translation, stretching, blending and "floor sprites" (splats). (!1257)
Let PLAYPAL serve more than 14 palettes. Flashpals also apply while the game is paused. (!1255)
The original camera movement is preserved in demo playback. You can revert to the old style camera with the freedemocamera cvar though. (!1243)
Flame Shield and Thunder Shield now put no spin characters into a spin state when using the ability. (!1220)
PK3 files with 'holes' may no longer be loaded. The reasoning for this change is that such files can be exploited to show different contents depending on the tool, which could've been used to hide innapropriate or malicious content. (!1275)
Updated the credits. (!1308)
Added downscaling for APNG. (!1197)
Special text is printed when the player begins the final lap in Circuit mode. (!1303)
Element shield's spin flame trail takes the player's color in competitive gametypes. (!1312)
SOC now supports caret colors ^A - ^F. (!1295)
Ring drain sectors play the ring depletion sound. (!1315)
Added a SF_NOSHIELDABILITY skin flag. This flag prevents activating shield abilities for that character. It also disables the attraction shield's targetting arrow. (!1331)
Extended font remaps to 16 continuous colors. (!1202)
 
 
 
Resource Files
 
 
Minor changes in Green Flower 1 (#317).
Fixed loop points in Alpine Paradise 1 & 2 and Dream Hill.
Added acronym keywords to Co-op levels. For use with the map command, so e.g. you can warp to Green Flower 1 with map GFZ1.





